Research Article

 Cite This: ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604 pubs.acs.org/acscatalysis

 Mechanism and Kinetics of Isobutene Formation from Ethanol and
 Acetone over ZnxZryOz
 Julie E. Rorrer,†,§ F. Dean Toste,‡,§ and Alexis T. Bell*,‡,§
 †
 Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and ‡Department of Chemistry, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley,
 California 94720, United States
 §
 Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, United States
 *
 S Supporting Information
See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.

 ABSTRACT: Isobutene is a specialty chemical used in the
 production of fuel additives, polymers, and other high-value
 products. While normally produced by steam cracking of
 petroleum naphtha, there is increasing interest in identifying
 Downloaded via UNIV OF TOKYO on August 5, 2025 at 03:54:51 (UTC).

 routes to synthesizing isobutene from biomass-derived
 compounds, such as ethanol and acetone. Recent work has
 shown that zinc−zirconium mixed oxides are eﬀective and
 selective catalysts for producing isobutene from ethanol.
 However, the reaction pathway, the roles of acidic and basic
 sites, and the role of water in promoting stability and selectivity
 are not yet clearly deﬁned. In this study, a series of zinc−
 zirconium mixed oxides with tunable acid−base properties
 were synthesized and characterized with XRD, Raman
 spectroscopy, BET, CO2-TPD, NH3-TPD, and IR DRIFTS
 of adsorbed pyridine in order to probe the roles of acid and base sites for each step in the ethanol-to-isobutene reaction
 pathway. The observed reaction kinetics, supported by modeling of these kinetics, suggest that the reaction of ethanol to
 isobutene proceeds via a ﬁve-step sequence. Ethanol ﬁrst undergoes dehydrogenation to acetaldehyde, which is then oxidized to
 acetic acid. This product undergoes ketonization to produce acetone, which dimerizes to form diacetone alcohol. The latter
 product either decomposes directly to isobutene and acetic acid or produces these products by dehydration to mesityl oxide and
 subsequent hydrolysis. The acetic acid formed undergoes ketonization to produce additional acetone. The dispersion of zinc
 oxide on zirconia was found to produce a balance between Lewis acidic and basic sites that prevent the loss of ethanol via
 dehydration to ethylene and promote the cascade reactions of ethanol and acetone to isobutene. Water, while inhibiting both
 isobutene and mesityl oxide formation, improves isobutene selectivity by suppressing side reactions such as unimolecular
 dehydration, acetone decomposition, and deactivation due to coke formation.
 KEYWORDS: isobutene, ethanol, acetone, ketonization, aldol condensation, metal oxides, zinc, zirconium

 1. INTRODUCTION renewable isobutene has been demonstrated although the
 Isobutene is a valuable platform molecule used for the yields and cost are not yet competitive with fossil fuel-based
 synthesis of polymers, such as butyl rubber, and other polymer production of isobutene.11
 precursors, such as methyl methacrylate, methacrolein, and Ethanol and acetone are attractive starting points for the
 acrylics.1 Ethers such as methyl-tert-butyl ether (MTBE) and synthesis of isobutene since both can be produced by the
 ethyl-tert-butyl ether (ETBE), high-octane additives for fermentation of biomass-derived sugars.12−14 Recent work by
 gasoline, can be produced by reaction of isobutene with an Sun et al. has demonstrated that ethanol and acetone can be
 alcohol.2,3 The principal source of isobutene today is steam converted into isobutene with high selectivity over zinc−
 cracking of naphtha, dehydration of fossil-derived tert-butanol, zirconia mixed oxide catalysts.15−17 The authors identiﬁed
 or dehydrogenation of petroleum-derived isobutane.4 Iso- Zn1Zr10Oz as a selective and stable catalyst for the production
 butene can also be produced via the reaction of CO and H2, of isobutene from ethanol and acetone in the gas phase at 723
 obtained by steam reforming of methane, over a zirconia-based K with a steam-to-carbon molar ratio of 5. The conversion of
 catalyst in a process known as isosynthesis.5−8 Growing acetone to isobutene was thought to proceed via the
 concern with the rise in atmospheric CO2 levels caused by the adsorption of acetone on a Lewis acidic Zr atom followed by
 consumption of petroleum-derived sources of carbon has
 motivated exploration of renewable sources of carbon to meet Received: July 18, 2019
 the increasing global demand for fuels and specialty Revised: October 9, 2019
 chemicals.9,10 Fermentation of monosaccharides to produce Published: October 10, 2019

 © 2019 American Chemical Society 10588 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

hydrogen extraction by a basic oxygen to form an adsorbed Therefore, examination of the literature does not fully
enolate, which then attacks a second acetone to form diacetone address the question of which active sites are necessary for
alcohol. This product then either decomposes to form isobutene formation from ethanol and acetone. While the
isobutene and acetic acid or dehydrates to form mesityl dispersion of ZnO on zirconia provides basicity and suppresses
oxide, which then hydrolyzes to produce isobutene and acetic ethanol dehydration, it is unclear whether zirconia simply
acid.16 Subsequent work by Li et al. showed that diacetone provides a high surface area support or whether the interaction
alcohol, mesityl oxide, phorone, and isophorone are potential of the dispersed ZnO with the support produces additional or
intermediates in the conversion of acetone to isobutene over stronger Lewis acidity, or aids in the formation of oxygen
ZnxZryOz.18 Crisci et al. have also reported that isobutene vacancies that promote the dissociation of water. The aim of
yields of up to 50% could be obtained by reacting acetic acid this work was to develop a detailed understanding of the
over an amorphous binary metal oxide (Zn2Zr8Oz) at 723 K.19 sequence of reactions involved in the conversion of ethanol
We note that while potential intermediates have been and acetone to isobutene over ZnxZryOz. This eﬀort involved
identiﬁed for the reaction of acetone to isobutene over identifying the stable reaction intermediates and the types of
ZnxZryOz, the mechanism is not yet clearly deﬁned. For the sites required to promote each phase of the reaction sequence.
reaction of ethanol to isobutene, neither the reaction pathway To this end, we synthesized and characterized a series of
nor the active sites necessary for each step in the reaction ZnxZryOz catalysts with varying acidity and basicity and used
pathway are known. these materials in a systematic study of the roles of acid and
 Sun et al. suggested that a balance between acid and base base sites for each step in the reaction pathway. The
sites on ZnxZryOz is responsible for the eﬀective cascade presentation of our results starts by detailing the catalyst
reaction of bioethanol and acetone to isobutene.15 The authors characterization. We then develop a picture for the overall
observed a selectivity to isobutene of over 88% from acetone at reaction pathway involved in the conversion of ethanol and
723 K in the presence of water over Zn1Zr10Oz.16 By contrast, acetone to isobutene over ZnxZryOz. Next, we propose a
ZrO2 exhibited a signiﬁcantly lower selectivity to isobutene mechanism for each step in the reaction pathway that is
(∼13%) for the reaction of acetone, with methane and CO2 consistent with the experimental data, catalyst characteristics,
(∼60 and ∼27%, respectively) appearing as the principal and a thorough review of the existing literature. Finally, we
products. It was suggested that the zinc oxide present on the discuss the role of water in promoting isobutene formation and
surface passivates the strong Brønsted acidity of the zirconia preventing catalyst deactivation as well as the role of the
and introduces basicity, preventing decomposition of acetone mesityl oxide intermediate.
as well as suppressing ethanol dehydration to ethylene for the
ethanol to isobutene reaction. These authors also found that 2. MATERIALS AND METHODS
the selectivity toward isobutene from acetone over pure ZnO 2.1. Materials. All chemicals obtained commercially were
was approximately the same (∼80%) as that observed over used without further puriﬁcation. The following compounds
Zn1Zr10Oz for an acetone conversion of ∼28%. While the were obtained from Sigma Aldrich: ethanol (>99.5%), 4-
comparison of ZrO2 and Zn1Zr10Oz suggests that basicity is hydroxy-4-methyl-2-pentanone (diacetone alcohol, 99%),
necessary for the reactions of ethanol and acetone to mesityl oxide (90%, remainder 4-methyl-4-penten-2-one),
isobutene, the role of the zirconia support remains unclear. acetaldehyde solution (50 wt % in ethanol), acetone
Because only a small diﬀerence in isobutene selectivity is (>99.5%), acetic acid (>99%), diethyl ether (>99%), and
observed for the reaction of acetone over ZnO compared to ethyl acetate (99.8%). Acetone-d6 (99.9%) and deuterium
Zn1Zr10Oz at the same conversion, it is unclear what role the oxide (99.9%) were obtained from Cambridge Isotope
balance between acid and base properties of the catalyst plays Laboratories. Standard gas (3.01% methane, 1.5% ethylene,
in the acetone to isobutene reaction. 1.5% ethane, 1% propene, 1.01% propane, 0.745% cis-2-butene,
 The role of Brønsted acid sites in the synthesis of isobutene 0.748% trans-2-butene, 0.75% butane, 0.6% n-pentane in He),
has also been considered. Herrmann and Iglesia have recently 1% Ar in He (CSG), ammonia (99.995%), and He (5.0 UHP)
reported the selective conversion of acetone to isobutene and were obtained from Praxair. Isobutene gas (99%) was obtained
acetic acid over Brønsted acidic aluminosilicates and proposed from Sigma-Aldrich. Nanopure water was obtained via a MilliQ
a radical-mediated pathway for the formation of isobutene via water puriﬁcation system. Zinc oxide (99.9995% metals basis)
an equilibrated pool of C6 intermediates; however, the catalyst was obtained from Puratronic.
underwent rapid deactivation due to side product formation 2.2. Synthesis of Zirconia and Zinc−Zirconia Mixed
over the Brønsted acid sites, which produced coke.20 Oxide. Porous amorphous zirconia and the zinc−zirconia
Hutchings et al. have also observed catalyst deactivation for mixed oxides were synthesized using modiﬁcations of
the reaction of acetone to isobutene over Bronsted acidic previously reported methods.16,23−26 Amorphous zirconium
zeolites BEA and ZSM-5.21 Ponomareva et al. have suggested oxyhydroxide (ZrOx(OH)4−2x ) was formed by adding
that Brønsted acid sites on cesium-modiﬁed mordenite and ammonium hydroxide (Spectrum, 28−30%) dropwise to a
MCM-41 were preferable for the synthesis of isobutene from stirred solution of 0.5 M zirconyl chloride octahydrate (Sigma
acetone although these authors also observed catalyst Aldrich, 98%) at 298 K. The precipitate was ﬁltered and rinsed
deactivation due to coking.22 Sun et al. and Liu et al. have with 10% ammonium hydroxide and dried at 383 K for 24 h.
suggested that weak Brønsted acid sites are responsible for The zinc−zirconia mixed oxides were prepared via incipient
isobutene formation, but strong Brønsted acid sites catalyze wetness impregnation of amorphous zirconium oxyhydroxide
coke formation and that the absence of Brønsted acidity with an aqueous solution of zinc nitrate hexahydrate (Alfa
prevents side reactions.16,17 Crisci et al. have noted that Aesar, 99%) in a mortar with varying concentrations of zinc
Brønsted acid sites may be required to promote the hydrolysis nitrate corresponding to the target Zn weight loadings. The
of mesityl oxide to isobutene and that ZnO is unable to wetted support was ground with a mortar and pestle. After
catalyze the formation of isobutene from acetic acid.19 impregnation, the catalyst was dried at 383 K for 0.3 h, then
 10589 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

heated in air at 3 K min−1 to a temperature of 673 K, and held The density of basic sites was measured by temperature-
at this temperature for 2 h. This step was followed by further programmed desorption of CO2 (CO2-TPD) using a Micro-
heating the catalyst to 823 K at a rate of 5 K min−1 and holding metrics Auto Chem II 2920 instrument equipped with a
it at this temperature for 3 h after which it was cooled to room thermal conductivity detector. The catalyst samples were
temperature. Monoclinic zirconia was prepared using the same pretreated under He ﬂow at 873 K for 3 h and then cooled to
calcination procedure but in the absence of the zinc precursor. 313 K. CO2 was then introduced at 313 K for 0.5 h at 30 mL
 2.3. Catalyst Characterization. Powder X-ray diﬀraction min−1 and then purged with He at 313 K for 0.5 h to remove
(XRD) patterns for ZnO, ZrO2, and the ZnxZryOz catalysts any physisorbed species from the surface. The temperature-
were taken with a Bruker D8 GADDS diﬀractometer equipped programmed desorption of CO2 was then performed in 50 mL
with a Cu Kα source (40 kV, 40 mA). Raman spectra were min−1 He using a temperature ramp rate of 5 K min−1 up to a
obtained with a LabRAM HR Horiba Scientiﬁc Raman temperature of 1073 K.
spectrometer equipped with a 532 nm−1 laser. BET surface 2.4. Reactions. Gas-phase reactions were performed in a
areas were calculated from nitrogen adsorption isotherms gas-phase ﬂow reactor. The catalyst was placed in a 6.35 mm-
acquired with a Micrometrics Gemini VII surface area and OD quartz tube with an expanded section (∼12.7 mm OD,
porosity instrument after being degassed overnight at 393 K ∼20 mm length) packed with quartz wool above and below the
with a Micrometrics VacPrep 061. Scanning electron catalyst. The reactor temperature was maintained using a tube
microscopy images of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) were acquired furnace equipped with an Omega temperature controller and a
with an FEI Quanta FEG 250 scanning electron microscope K-type thermocouple. Prior to each reaction, the catalyst was
(SEM) equipped with a Bruker Quantax energy-dispersive treated in 40 mL min−1 He for 2 h at 723 K at a ramp rate of
spectrometer (EDS). ICP elemental analysis was performed by 10 K min−1. The same catalyst surface area was used to study
Galbraith Laboratories, Inc. to determine Zn and Zr loadings. reactions over ZnxZryOz and ZnO in order to compare activity
 The identiﬁcation of Brønsted and Lewis acid sites was and selectivity at similar reactant conversions.
determined from IR spectra of adsorbed pyridine. Spectra were Reactions were performed using helium (Praxair, 5.0 Ultra
acquired using a Thermo Scientiﬁc Nicolet 6700 Fourier High Purity) as a carrier gas. Liquid-phase reactants (ethanol,
transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer equipped with a acetaldehyde/ethanol solution, acetic acid, acetone, diacetone
diﬀuse reﬂectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy alcohol, mesityl oxide, and nanopure water) were injected via a
(DRIFTS) cell. A mixture of catalyst (50 mg) diluted with KBr Cole Palmer 74900 series syringe pump into the reactor with
(250 mg) was added to the DRIFTS cell and pre-treated at 573 lines heated to >367 K to vaporize the liquids before reaching
K for 2 h under 50 mL min−1 helium. DRIFTS scans for ZnO the reactor. Experiments were carried out at atmospheric
were repeated in the presence and absence of a KBr diluent. pressure, between 573 and 823 K, with total ﬂow rates ranging
Background scans of the catalysts were taken at 393, 423, 473, from 10 to 300 mL min−1 in a balance of helium. Reaction
523, and 573 K. Pyridine (2 μL) was introduced into the He products were analyzed using an Agilent 6890 N gas
ﬂow at 323 K, and spectral data was taken after stabilization of chromatograph (GC) containing a (5%-phenyl)-methylpolysi-
adsorbed pyridine at 323 K. The temperature was then raised loxane capillary column (Agilent, HP-5) connected to a ﬂame
to measure the amount of pyridine that remained adsorbed at ionization detector. The temperature program for the GC
373, 393, 423, 473, 523, and 573 K. Spectral intensities were column began at 263 K (cooled with liquid N2), then ramped
calculated using the Kubelka−Munk function. to 283 K at 3 K min−1, then ramped to 353 K at 33 K min−1,
 The density of acid sites was measured by ammonia held at 353 K for 1 min, then ramped to 363 K at 33 K min−1,
temperature-programmed desorption (NH3-TPD).27 NH3- and held at 363 K for 1 min. Retention times and response
TPD proﬁles of the ZnO, ZrO2, and ZnxZryOz samples were factors were obtained either by injecting solutions of products
acquired using a gas-phase ﬂow reactor with an outlet ﬂowing via the syringe pump or by ﬂowing standard gas mixtures into
to a mass spectrometer (MKS, Cirrus). Samples (∼200 mg) the reactor. Concentrations of CO2 were estimated based on
were loaded into a quartz reactor and plugged on either end the stoichiometry shown in Section 3.2, closing carbon
with quartz wool. A thermocouple was placed above the balances to within ±5%. Response factors for higher oleﬁns
catalyst bed. Samples were ﬁrst heated at 5 K min−1 to a (C9+), produced in the absence of water, were estimated using
temperature of 723 K and held for 0.5 h in a ﬂow of 50 mL the eﬀective carbon number method.28
min−1 He (Praxair, UHP). The reactor was then cooled to 323
K, the He ﬂow was increased to 250 mL min−1, and 1% Ar in 3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
He (Praxair, CSG) was introduced at 50 mL min−1. The 3.1. Catalyst Characterization. To probe the relationship
catalyst was saturated with NH3 by ﬂowing 5 mL min−1 of between Lewis acidity and basicity and catalytic activity for the
NH3 for 0.5 h. After stopping the ﬂow of NH3, 300 mL min−1 ethanol to isobutene reaction, ZnxZryOz compounds with
of He was passed over the catalyst bed overnight to remove diﬀerent weight loadings of Zn were synthesized and
any physisorbed NH3 from the catalyst surface. The temper- characterized using a variety of structural and surface
ature-programmed desorption was carried out in 50 mL min−1 characterization techniques. This series of catalysts was then
of 1% Ar in He as the temperature was ramped from 323 to used to identify the eﬀects of acidity and basicity on the
973 K at a ramp rate of 5 K min−1. The desorbed NH3 coming kinetics and mechanism of the ethanol and acetone to
out of the outlet ﬂow was directed to the mass spectrometer isobutene reactions. The Zn weight loadings, BET surface
for quantiﬁcation. Standards with known concentrations of areas, identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of acid sites, and
NH3 were taken before and after each TPD measurement to quantiﬁcation of basic sites are summarized in Table 1.
account for any drift during the course of the experiment. Ar Apart from the low-surface-area ZnO, the weight loading of Zn
was used as an internal standard for quantiﬁcation. The had a minimal eﬀect on the surface area of the catalysts, which
quantity of acid sites on the catalyst surface corresponds to the were all within the range of 46−56 m2 g−1. The weight
amount of NH3 desorbed from the catalyst during the TPD. loadings of Zn in the bulk measured by ICP closely matched
 10590 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

Table 1. Summary of Catalyst Characteristics have previously observed this stabilizing eﬀect for tungstated
 zirconia; as tungsten oxide is added to the surface of zirconia,
 wt % BET surface basicityb acidityc
 catalyst Zna area (m2 g−1) (μmol CO2/m2) (μmol NH3/m2) the Zr−O−W interactions stabilize the tetragonal zirconia
 WZ-ZnO 80.3 3.6 4.78 1.9
 phase and inhibit the sintering of zirconia to the more
 ZnxZryOz 8.0 53.3 2.81 2.6 thermodynamically stable monoclinic phase.24 Similarly, the
 ZnxZryOz 3.8 46.1 2.43 1.8 absence of the wurtzite phase suggests that Zr−O−Zn
 ZnxZryOz 2.7 48.1 2.51 1.5 interactions are present instead of clusters of ZnO.
 ZnxZryOz 2.2 51.0 3.21 2.6 Because the weight loadings of Zn are low, XRD may not be
 ZnxZryOz 1.7 49.5 2.75 2.2 suﬃcient to identify the presence or absence of the wurtzite
 ZnxZryOz 1.6 48.1 2.65 2.2 phase of ZnO; therefore, Raman spectra of the series of
 m-ZrO2 0 55.7 1.83 2.6 catalysts were acquired to provide further evidence for the
a
 Weight percent zinc measured by ICP by Galbraith. bMeasured from absence of wurtzite ZnO, as shown in Figure 1b. Raman
CO2 TPD. cMeasured from NH3 TPD. spectroscopy is sensitive to the wurtzite phase of ZnO, as
 evidenced by the strong band at approximately 430 cm−1.33,35
 Consistent with the observed changes in the XRD pattern,
the targeted amounts of Zn added to the support via incipient Raman spectroscopy shows that the monoclinic phase of
wetness impregnation (Figure S1). zirconia gives way to the tetragonal phase as Zn is added to the
 X-ray diﬀraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy were used zirconia. This change in phase is evidenced by the decrease in
as complementary techniques to identify phase transformations intensity of the Raman bands at 181, 377, 472, 556, 616, and
of the zirconia support that occurred with increasing zinc 634 cm−1 (monoclinic phase) as Zn loading increases and the
loading. The XRD patterns and Raman spectra are shown in increase in intensity of the bands at 149, 269, and 312 cm−1
Figure 1a, b. Figure 1a shows that the dominant phase of the
 (tetragonal phase) as the Zn loading increases.36−38 No
pure zirconia is monoclinic, as evidenced by the peaks at 2θ
 evidence for a band at 430 cm−1 was observed for any of the
angles of 24, 28, 32, and 56°,29−31 denoted by stars. As the Zn
loading increases, prominent peaks at 2θ angles of 30, 35, 50, ZnxZryOz catalysts, further indicating the absence of ZnO on
and 59° appear, denoted by triangles, that are characteristic of the catalyst surface. SEM−EDX characterization of ZnxZryOz
tetragonal zirconia.30−32 The pure bulk ZnO exhibits peaks at with 2.2 wt % Zn supports the conclusion that Zn is well
2θ angles of 32, 34, 37, 47, 57, 64, 67, 68, and 69°, denoted by dispersed on the surface of the catalyst, as shown in Figure 1d.
the squares, that are characteristic of wurtzite (WZ).33,34 The The trends in XRD patterns and Raman spectra are in good
wurtzite phase is not observed for ZnxZryOz, suggesting that agreement with the work of Baylon et al., who found that with
clusters of bulk ZnO are not present on the surface of these increasing Zn loading, the fraction of tetragonal versus
catalysts. As the weight loading of Zn approaches a theoretical monoclinic zirconia in ZnxZryOz increases and that ZnO is
monolayer coverage of zinc oxide over the zirconia (occurring not present.36 These authors also found that for intermediate
at molar ratio of Zn/Zr ∼1:50 for particles 5 μm in diameter), weight loadings of Zn, the formation of Zn−O−Zr moieties
the crystal structure of the zirconia changes from monoclinic to with balanced acid−base properties facilitated cascade
tetragonal. This suggests that the incorporation of Zn into the aldolization and self-deoxygenation reactions of acetone and
oxide structure stabilizes the tetragonal phase of zirconia. We methyl ethyl ketone.36

Figure 1. (a) X-ray diﬀraction patterns of ZnO, ZrO2, and ZnxZryOz catalysts for diﬀerent weight loadings of Zn (1.6−8.0 wt %); (b) Raman
spectra of catalysts − abbreviations wurtzite (WZ), monoclinic (m); symbols: wurtzite phase (squares), tetragonal zirconia (triangles), monoclinic
zirconia (stars); (c) molar ratio of total Lewis acid to base sites as a function of the weight loading of Zn; (d) SEM EDX of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt %
Zn); (e) Representative DRIFTS spectrum of pyridine adsorbed to ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) at 393 K (intensities normalized by the Kubelka−
Munk function); (f) NH3-TPD proﬁle for ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn); (g) CO2-TPD proﬁle for ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn).

 10591 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

 A combination of diﬀuse reﬂectance infrared spectroscopy of proﬁle, a strong peak with a maximum CO2 desorption around
adsorbed pyridine (DRIFTS-py), ammonia temperature- 375 K with a broad shoulder around 520 K and a small CO2
programmed desorption (NH3-TPD), and CO2 temperature- desorption peak at around 865 K. Sun et al. have assigned the
programmed desorption (CO2-TPD) was used to identify and low-temperature peak to the desorption of weakly adsorbed
quantify the acid and base sites on the catalysts. A CO2 on the Lewis basic oxygen atoms of the hydroxyl groups
representative DRIFTS spectrum for the adsorption of on ZrO2 and the high-temperature peak to CO2 adsorbed on
pyridine onto the ZnxZryOz catalyst with 2.2 wt % Zn at 393 strong Lewis acid−base pairs (Zr4+−O2−).15 Consistent with
K is shown in Figure 1e. Bands at 1609, 1575, and 1444 cm−1 the results of Sun et al., our CO2-TPD results did not reveal a
are characteristic of pyridine adsorbed on Lewis acid sites; peak corresponding to weakly adsorbed CO2 for ZnO, which
however, the absence of bands at 1639 and 1540 cm−1, only exhibits a single peak at approximately 700 K and not
corresponding to the pyridinium ion, suggests that there are no peaks at lower temperatures, which has been attributed to an
Brønsted acid sites present.30,39 DRIFTS-py spectra for ZnO, absence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of ZnO.15
ZrO2, and ZnxZryOz samples with Zn weight loadings of 1.6− In summary, characterization of ZnxZryOz shows that this
8.0% are shown in Figure S2. For each of these catalysts, material consists of highly dispersed zinc oxide on the surface
including monoclinic ZrO2, Lewis acid sites were observed but of tetragonal zirconia, with no evidence for ZnO nanoparticles.
none of the catalysts contained signiﬁcant Brønsted acid sites. The surface of ZnxZryOz contains a balance between
 NH3-TPD was used to quantify the concentration of acid moderately Lewis acidic and basic sites. As shown in Figure
sites. A representative NH3-TPD proﬁle for the ZnxZryOz 1c, varying the weight loading of Zn tunes the ratio of Lewis
catalyst with 2.2 wt % Zn is shown in Figure 1f, and the acidic to basic sites. This ﬁgure also shows that monoclinic
areal concentrations of adsorbed ammonia in units of μmol ZrO2 has a signiﬁcantly higher Lewis acid to base ratio and that
NH3/m2 of catalyst surface area are summarized in Table 1. ZnO has a signiﬁcantly lower Lewis acid to base ratio than
The shaded green region in Figure 1f represents NH3 ZnxZryOz. While the eﬀects of Zn loading on the ratio of Lewis
desorption from both weak and strong Lewis acid sites. The acidic to basic sites are subtle for ZnxZryOz, diﬀerences in this
NH3-TPD proﬁles for the full series of catalysts are shown in ratio can still be discerned. Evidence for these diﬀerences will
Figure S3a. Generally, the quantity of acid sites per surface area be discussed in Sections 3.3 and 3.4 in the context of our
of catalyst measured by NH3-TPD decreases in the order of studies of the reactions of ethanol and acetone to isobutene.
ZrO2 > ZnxZryOz > ZnO. A slight shift in the overall NH3 3.2. Proposed Reaction Pathway for Ethanol to
desorption toward lower temperatures with increasing Zn Isobutene. In this section, we will propose a reaction
loading can be attributed to the stronger Lewis acidity of Zr4+ pathway for the conversion of ethanol to isobutene. Evidence
cations of m-ZrO2 compared to t-ZrO2.40−42 In fact, the supporting this pathway and the site requirements for each
relative strengths of the Lewis acid sites on ZrO2 and ZnxZryOz step will be presented in Sections 3.3 and 3.4. The overall
catalysts can be compared by deconvoluting the NH3-TPD proposed reaction pathway for the conversion of ethanol to
spectra into weak and strong Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption isobutene is shown by Scheme 1.
peaks at 433 and 503 K). An example of this deconvolution is
shown in Figure S4a, and the molar ratio of NH3 desorption at Scheme 1. Proposed Reaction Pathway for the Conversion
stronger versus weaker Lewis acid sites is plotted as a function of Ethanol to Isobutene
of Zn weight loading in Figure S4b. The quantities of weak and
strong Lewis acid sites measured from this method are shown
in Table S1. As the weight loading of Zn increases, the ratio of
strong to weak Lewis acid sites decreases, consistent with the
proposition that the addition of Zn passivates the strong Lewis
acidity of ZrO2. This trend continues up to a Zn weight
loading of 8.0 wt % at which point the formation of bulk ZnO
may prevent Zn from incorporating into the ZrO2 lattice. We
also note that, for bulk ZnO, the maximum NH3 desorption The ﬁrst step in the proposed reaction pathway is the
occurs at approximately 504 K (Figure S5), suggesting that the dehydrogenation of ethanol to produce acetaldehyde followed
Lewis acid sites, although signiﬁcantly lower in concentration, by oxidation to produce acetic acid. Two equivalent moles of
are of moderate strength. acetic acid then undergo ketonization to produce one mole
 NH3 desorption peaks at higher temperatures (greater than each of acetone, CO2, and H2O. Two moles of acetone then
∼600 K) were not observed for any of the catalysts (see Figure dimerize to produce diacetone alcohol, which undergoes
S3a), further indicating that the concentration of Brønsted acid decomposition to produce isobutene and acetic acid or,
sites is insigniﬁcant. While no Brønsted acid sites were alternatively, undergoes reversible dehydration to produce
observed for these ex situ characterization techniques of the mesityl oxide followed by hydrolysis to isobutene and acetic
ZnxZryOz prepared via incipient wetness impregnation, it is acid. The acetic acid produced in this last step undergoes
possible that the dissociation of water under reaction further ketonization to produce more acetone, which then
conditions produces protons, which act as Brønsted acid reacts further to produce isobutene.
sites, a subject discussed in Sections 3.3 and 3.4. Scheme 1 shows acetic acid, acetone, and mesityl oxide as
 The Lewis basic sites on the catalyst surface were quantiﬁed reaction intermediates. The data shown in Table 2 present the
by temperature-programmed desorption of CO2. A represen- Gibbs free energies of reaction for forming isobutene from
tative CO2-TPD plot is shown in Figure 1g over ZnxZryOz (2.2 ethanol, acetic acid, acetone, and mesityl oxide. The Gibbs free
wt % Zn), and the remainder of the plots are given in Figure energies are calculated using density functional theory for a
S3b. A summary of the concentrations of Lewis basic sites is reaction temperature of 723 K. Also shown in this table are the
given in Table 1. Two peaks are observed in the CO2-TPD maximum carbon selectivities for forming isobutene from each
 10592 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

Table 2. Reaction Stoichiometry and Free Energies of reaction of ethanol to isobutene (see Figure S9), which is high
Formation for Ethanol, Acetic Acid, Acetone, and Mesityl considering the theoretical carbon selectivity to acetone from
Oxide Conversion to Isobutene ethanol is 75%. However, because the reaction rate is higher at
 723 K, this temperature was selected for observation of
 maximum
 theoretical reaction intermediates.
 carbon Figure 2a shows that as the space time increases, the
 selectivity conversion of ethanol over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) increases.
 toward ΔGrxn, 723 Ka
 overall reaction isobutene [%] [kJ mol−1] At low space times, the principal products are acetaldehyde
 3EtOH + H2O → 2CO2 + 6H2 + C4H8 66.7 −235.9 and acetone as well as CO2. Smaller amounts of acetic acid and
 3CH3COOH → C4H8 + 2CO2 + 2H2O 66.7 −228.1 ethylene are also observed. As the space time increases, the
 3CH3COCH3 → 2C4H8 + CO2 + H2O 88.9 −76.1 selectivity to acetone reaches a maximum, whereas the
 3C6H10O + H2O → 4C4H8 + 2CO2 88.9 −266.0 selectivity to isobutene begins to rise monotonically, suggesting
a
 Gibbs free energies of formation calculated from DFT, with that acetone is an intermediate in the formation of isobutene.
computational details provided in the Supporting Information. The selectivity to ethylene is invariant with space time,
 suggesting that this product is produced via a pathway that is
starting compound. Computational details on the calculations not involved in the conversion of ethanol to isobutene, for
are given in Figure S6. example, by direct ethanol dehydration. Trace amounts of
 The eﬀect of space time, deﬁned as the inverse of the propene (pink, circle) are also observed and increase with
weight-hourly space velocity (WHSV−1), on the product increasing conversion of ethanol. The formation of propene
distribution for the gas-phase conversion of ethanol to likely comes from the dehydration of isopropanol, which is
isobutene was investigated over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn). produced by reduction of acetone. We note that propene
These studies were conducted at 723 K with a steam-to-carbon formation from ethanol over AgCeO2/ZrO2 and Y2O3-CeO2
(S/C) molar ratio of 5 as these reaction conditions showed the has been reported,43,44 and it has been proposed that the
optimal selectivity towards isobutene. As the temperature acetone is reduced to propanol by hydrogen transfer from
increases, the rate of isobutene formation from acetone ethanol via the Meerwein−Ponndorf−Verley (MPV) mecha-
increases up to 723 K at which point the catalysts begin to nism (see Scheme S1). The formation of methane, which is a
deactivate. Isobutene selectivity also increases with increasing result of acetone decomposition, also increases as space time
steam-to-carbon ratio, but the rate drops above S/C = 5 (see increases.
Figures S7 and S8). We note that at lower temperatures (698 Figure 2b shows the eﬀect of space time on the product
K), higher selectivities toward desired products (4% isobutene, selectivity for the reaction of ethanol to isobutene over zinc
10% acetaldehyde, and 53% acetone) can be attained for the oxide. The trends in the intermediates produced in the

Figure 2. Eﬀect of space time on ethanol conversion and product selectivity over (a) ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), (b) bulk wurtzite ZnO, (bi) bulk
wurtzite ZnO (scale enlarged), and (c) monoclinic ZrO2. Reaction conditions: 723 K, atmospheric pressure, 20−300 mL min−1 He, (a) 4 mg of
ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), S/C 5, 0.16 kPa EtOH, 11.4 kPa H2O, (b) 311 mg of ZnO, S/C = 5, 0.21 kPa EtOH, 11.4 kPa H2O, (c) 22.4 mg of ZrO2,
S/C 2, 0.7 kPa EtOH, 30 kPa H2O. WHSV is deﬁned as the mass ﬂow of reactants divided by the mass of catalyst (g h−1 g−1). Lines are a guide for
the eye.

 10593 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

reaction are similar to those for ZnxZryOz in Figure 2a;
acetaldehyde and acetone are observed as intermediates, and
the selectivity to isobutene, propene, and methane steadily
increases with increasing space time. However, to achieve the
same conversion of ethanol and product yields over ZnO as
those over ZnxZryOz, an order of magnitude higher space time
is required for ZnO. Other diﬀerences are observed, including
a clear peak in the selectivity toward acetic acid and mesityl
oxide at lower space times over ZnO compared to ZnxZryOz,
(see Figure 2bi).
 Figure 2c shows that for the reaction of ethanol over ZrO2,
the major product is ethylene, resulting from unimolecular
dehydration of ethanol. Some acetone is formed, but only trace
amounts of isobutene are produced and the selectivity to this
product does not change signiﬁcantly with increasing space
time. The high selectivity to ethylene over ZrO2 even in the
presence of water is not surprising as zirconia is known to
catalyze the unimolecular dehydration of alcohols.45,46 Because Figure 3. (a) Conversion and selectivity of ethanol conversion over
 ZnO, ZrO2, and ZnxZryOz as a function of Zn loading and (b)
of the subtler diﬀerences in the reaction intermediates
 selectivity as a function of acid/base molar ratio. Reaction conditions:
observed over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) compared to ZnO, 698 K, 1 kPa EtOH, S/C = 4, 50 mL min−1 He, 1 m2 catalyst.
we will place more of a focus on comparing reactions over
these two catalysts in subsequent sections. between the rate of ethanol consumption and basicity (Figure
 3.3. Ethanol Conversion to Acetone. In this section, we S10b) but not acidity (Figure S10a), further supporting the
focus on the steps involved in the conversion of ethanol to idea that ethanol dehydrogenation to acetaldehyde is base-
acetone, a critical intermediate in producing isobutene. We use catalyzed. From the relationship between the Lewis acid/base
a combination of experimental evidence and information taken ratio and the reaction selectivity, it is clear that minimizing
from the literature to propose a mechanism for each of the ethylene production requires an optimal ratio of Lewis acid to
following steps: ethanol dehydrogenation to acetaldehyde, base sites, which can be achieved with ZnxZryOz. We also
acetaldehyde oxidation to acetic acid, and ketonization of found that ethanol dehydration increases in the absence of
acetic acid to acetone, and to propose what types of sites are water over ZnxZryOz, as shown in Figure 4 and Figure S11.
required for each step. The elementary processes involved in
the conversion of acetone to isobutene are discussed in Section
3.4.
 3.3.1. Ethanol Dehydrogenation to Acetaldehyde. The
proposed ﬁrst step in the reaction of ethanol to isobutene is the
dehydrogenation of ethanol to acetaldehyde and H2. The
observation of a maximum in the rate of acetaldehyde
production over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) at low ethanol
conversions, seen in Figure 2a, suggests that acetaldehyde is an
intermediate in the reaction pathway. Additional information
on the role of the acid−base properties of the catalyst in the
dehydrogenation of ethanol to acetaldehyde and the
competing reaction, ethanol dehydration, was obtained by Figure 4. Reactions of ethanol and acetaldehyde over ZnO and
measuring the ethanol conversion and product selectivities for ZnxZryOz. Reaction conditions given in Table 3. For carbon selectivity
 calculations, acetaldehyde is considered a product, despite being co-
ZrO2, ZnxZryOz, and ZnO at 698 K, as shown in Figure 3.
 fed in entries 5−8.
 Acetaldehyde is observed for all the ZnxZryOz catalysts as
well as bulk ZnO, as shown in Figure 3a. Some acetaldehyde
can also be observed for the reaction of ethanol over ZrO2 The combination of strong Lewis basicity introduced by
although the selectivity to this product is minimal. Because the dispersing Zn on the catalyst surface and the inhibition of
basicity and acidity of the catalysts change with weight loading dehydration by water is therefore expected to be responsible
of Zn, the ethanol conversion and the product selectivities can for promoting ethanol dehydrogenation over ZnxZryOz and
be correlated with the ratio of Lewis acidity to basicity ZnO.
quantiﬁed by NH3-TPD and CO2-TPD, respectively. As shown Prior studies have shown that ethanol dehydrogenation is
in Figure 3b, the conversion of ethanol decreases as the ratio of Lewis base-catalyzed and inhibited by water,47,48 whereas the
Lewis acidity to basicity increases. The addition of Zn to ethanol dehydration is catalyzed by Brønsted or Lewis
zirconia greatly suppresses ethanol dehydration by passivating acidity,49−52 and inhibited by water.49,50 Of particular note
the Lewis acidity and introducing basicity, as evidenced by the for the present study, Vohs and Barteau have suggested that
minimum in ethylene selectivity for the catalysts with over the (0001)-Zn surface of ZnO, ethanol and 1-propanol
intermediate ratios of acid to base sites (red line and square dehydration and dehydrogenation share a common inter-
points). However, the ethylene selectivity increases slightly mediate, an ethoxide, formed by dissociative adsorption of
over ZnO, possibly as a result of strong base-catalyzed ethanol onto the catalyst surface.53
dehydration. The selectivity to acetone is also highest for Based upon our experimental results and proposed
ZnxZryOz containing 2.2 wt % Zn. There is a clear relationship mechanisms for ethanol dehydrogenation in the literature,
 10594 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

we propose a mechanism for the Lewis acid−base-catalyzed Table 3. Reaction Conditions for Figure 4a
dehydrogenation of ethanol to produce acetaldehyde over the
 feedstock
zinc−zirconia mixed oxide catalysts, shown in Scheme 2. catalyst partial partial
 mass pressure pressure
Scheme 2. Proposed Mechanism for the Dehydrogenation entry feedstock catalyst [mg] [kPa] H2O [kPa]
of Ethanol over ZnxZryOz 1 ethanol ZnxZryOz 4.8 0.16 13
 2.2 wt %
 Zn
 2 ethanol ZnxZryOz 4.8 0.16 0
 2.2 wt %
 Zn
 3 ethanol ZnO 58 0.19 13
 4 ethanol ZnO 58 0.19 0
 5 ethanol/ ZnxZryOz 4.8 0.14 13
 acetaldehyde 2.2 wt %
 Zn
 6 ethanol/ ZnxZryOz 4.8 0.14 0
 acetaldehyde 2.2 wt %
 Zn
 7 ethanol/ ZnO 60.1 0.13 13
 acetaldehyde
 8 ethanol/ ZnO 60.1 0.13 0
 acetaldehyde
 a
Although the surface contains Zn−O−Zr moieties, the surface Additional reaction conditions for entries 1−8: 723 K, 150 mL
is drawn as ZnO for simplicity because it is estimated that the min−1 He, atmospheric pressure.
surface coverage of ZnO exceeds one monolayer for the mixed
oxide catalysts. The ﬁrst step is the dissociative adsorption of As discussed in Section 3.3.1, the ethanol selectivity to
ethanol over a Lewis acid Zn2+ site on the catalyst surface to ethylene is higher over ZnO than (2.2 wt % Zn) in the
produce a bound alkoxide. This is followed by the rate-limiting presence of water, as shown by entries 1 and 3 in Figure 4.
Lewis base-catalyzed abstraction of an α-hydrogen, breaking a Over ZnxZryOz, the selectivity to ethylene is relatively
C−H bond and forming a CO bond. The ﬁnal step is the unchanged when acetaldehyde is co-fed with ethanol in the
desorption of acetaldehyde. The hydrogen can then leave as H2 presence of water (entry 5 compared to entry 1). However,
or as water via the Mars−van Krevelen (MVK) mechanism, over ZnO, the selectivity to ethylene is lower when
leaving an oxygen vacancy on the surface. This vacancy is acetaldehyde is co-fed (entry 7 compared to entry 3).
replenished by water, which dissociates on the surface. While The selectivity to acetic acid is generally higher when
acetaldehyde is observed as a product at low space times, it is acetaldehyde is co-fed with ethanol (entries 5−8), suggesting
not observed at high space times, that is, high ethanol that acetaldehyde is an intermediate in acetic acid formation.
conversions, suggesting that as the concentration of Slightly higher amounts of acetic acid are observed over
acetaldehyde starts to build up, its conversion to acetic acid ZnxZryOz (entries 1, 2, 5, 6) compared to ZnO (entries 3, 4, 7,
is accelerated. 8), suggesting that the oxidation of acetaldehyde is promoted
 3.3.2. Oxidation of Acetaldehyde to Acetic Acid. The next by balanced acid/base sites present on the surface of ZnxZryOz.
step in the proposed reaction pathway for the formation of Ethyl acetate was not observed for any of the reactions,
isobutene from ethanol is oxidation of acetaldehyde (or an suggesting that the oxidation of acetaldehyde over ZnxZryOz
adsorbed alkoxide) to produce acetic acid (or a surface acetate and ZnO occurs via hydroxyl addition to acetaldehyde as
species). Acetic acid is observed as an intermediate at low opposed to the decomposition of ethyl acetate, as proposed for
space times over ZnO (Figure 2bi) but is not observed for the the formation of acetone from ethanol over Y2O3-CeO2.44
reaction of ethanol over ZnxZryOz (Figure 2a). This is likely It has been proposed that acetaldehyde oxidation to acetic
due to the rapid ketonization of acetic acid to produce acetone acid occurs via direct participation of surface hydroxyl groups
over ZnxZryOz, as discussed further in Section 3.3.3. from adsorbed water over Sc/In2O344 and ZnO-CaO.54
 To deduce the reaction pathway for the oxidation of Rahman et al. found that water inhibits the aldolization of
acetaldehyde to acetic acid over ZnxZryOz, we compared the acetaldehyde to crotonaldehyde over ZnO, favoring instead the
reaction of ethanol and mixtures of ethanol and acetaldehyde oxidation of acetaldehyde to acetic acid, which undergoes
over ZnxZryOz and ZnO in the presence and absence of water. ketonization to produce acetone.55 Silva-Calpa et al. have
Mixtures of ethanol and acetaldehyde (50 wt %) were used to shown that the addition of Zn to monoclinic zirconia produces
ensure that the reactants were introduced in the liquid phase defect sites in the form of oxygen vacancies that improve the
before vaporizing in the feed line to the reactor. Figure 4 gives redox properties of the catalyst and promote the dissociation of
key results for these reactions, and the reaction conditions for water on the surface.56 In a subsequent study of the conversion
each experiment are given in Table 3. of ethanol to acetone over ZnxZr1−xO2−y, the authors suggested
 Water is necessary to promote the reactions of ethanol and that acetaldehyde reacts with the oxygen of the solid solution
ethanol/acetaldehyde mixtures over both ZnxZryOz and ZnO, to produce vacancies on the catalyst surface and then
as evidenced by the signiﬁcantly lower conversions observed in undergoes ketonization to acetone and CO2 followed by the
the absence of water (entries 2, 4, 6, and 8) compared to those dissociation of water over vacancy sites to re-oxidize the
attained in the presence of water (entries 1, 3, 5, and 7). The surface.57 The formation of oxygen vacancies by the addition
conversions shown in entries 2, 4, 6, and 8 correspond to initial of Zn and Zr dopants to metal oxides has been shown to
conversion and selectivity, because both ZnxZryOz and ZnO improve the mobility of lattice oxygen participating in the
rapidly deactivate in the absence of water (see Figure S12a,b). Mars−van Krevelen mechanism, in addition to modifying the
 10595 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

acid−base properties.58,59 Other studies have shown that
oxygen vacancies are able to promote the dissociation of water
to produce surface hydroxyl groups over ceria60 and zirconia.61
Moreover, theoretical investigations of the partial dissociation
of H2O over ZnO (1011) have concluded that the hydrogen
bonding of water aids in water dissociation; therefore, the
greater the surface coverage of water, the greater the water
dissociation.62
 Our experimental evidence indicating that water is critical
for the oxidation of acetaldehyde and that balanced Lewis
acid/base sites promote the oxidation of acetaldehyde, Figure 5. Reaction conditions: left: 22.3 mg of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt %
together with evidence for the role of water dissociation in Zn), 723 K, 0.16 kPa acetic acid, 11.4 kPa H2O, S/C = 5.4; right: 319
the oxidation of acetaldehyde given in the litera- mg of ZnO, 723 K, 0.18 kPa acetic acid, 13 kPa H2O, S/C = 5.7.
ture,44,54−57,59−62 lead us to propose the mechanism for the
oxidation of acetaldehyde to acetic acid shown in Scheme 3. catalyst surface area. The conversion of acetic acid is greater
 over the mixed oxide catalyst, and the rate of isobutene
Scheme 3. Proposed Mechanism for the Oxidation of formation is over 3 times greater over the ZnxZryOz compared
Acetaldehyde over ZnxZryOz to ZnO (4.11 × 10−5 mol h−1 m−2 versus 1.25 × 10−5 mol h−1
 m−2, respectively). As shown in the three rightmost entries of
 Figure 5, the selectivity to isobutene can be increased over
 ZnO as the space time and hence the conversion of acetic acid
 increase. To reach the same rate of isobutene formation over
 ZnO as that observed over the mixed oxide catalyst, the space
 time needs to be increased by approximately a factor of 4. Still,
 the reaction pathway and intermediates appear to be the same
 over ZnO as they are over ZnxZryOz although as the
 conversion is increased, the selectivity to methane over ZnO
 also increases.
 In the absence of water, the rate of acetic acid consumption
 over both ZnO and ZnxZryOz decreases rapidly due to catalyst
 deactivation. As shown in Figure S14a,b, the initial rate of
Acetaldehyde ﬁrst adsorbs onto a Lewis acid site, and water isobutene formation is high, but the catalyst deactivates
dissociates onto the catalyst surface over oxygen vacancies. immediately and produces signiﬁcant amounts of acetic
These steps are followed by the addition of a hydroxyl group to anhydride, as well as small amounts of methane. This suggests
the carbonyl carbon atom and then base-catalyzed hydrogen that water, while inhibiting active sites for acetic acid
abstraction and formation of the carbon−oxygen double bond adsorption, inhibits undesired acetone decomposition to
to produce bound acetic acid. The acetic acid can either desorb methane and bimolecular dehydration of acetic acid to
or remain on the surface to undergo ketonization in the next produce acetic anhydride. Furthermore, at a constant steam-
step. to-carbon ratio, there is an increase in the rate of isobutene
 3.3.3. Ketonization of Acetic Acid to Acetone. The next formation and selectivity with increasing acetic acid partial
step in the proposed reaction pathway is ketonization of acetic pressure (see Figure S15), suggesting that the surface is not
acid to produce acetone. As shown earlier in Figure 2bi, at low saturated with acetic acid. The clear diﬀerences in the reaction
space times, the reaction of ethanol over ZnO yields a small rates of acetic acid over ZnO and ZnxZryOz suggest that the
amount of acetic acid, which is generated and then consumed balanced acid−base pairs on ZnxZryOz are more eﬀective for
as the space time increases. In contrast, as shown in Figure 2a, the ketonization step than the strong Lewis basic sites on bulk
no signiﬁcant amounts of acetic acid can be observed for the ZnO.
reaction of ethanol over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn). This suggests Previous studies have suggested that Lewis acid−base pairs
that acetic acid reacts more rapidly over ZnxZryOz than over promote ketonization of acetic acid over ZnxZryOz prepared
ZnO, indicating that ketonization requires a higher concen- via sol−gel synthesis19 and that the acid−base properties of the
tration of Lewis acid sites. To further probe the reactivity of catalyst or coordination vacancies play a critical role in
acetic acid, we studied the reaction of acetic acid over ZnO and catalyzing the ketonization reaction over metal oxides.63 Wang
ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) in the presence and absence of water. and Iglesia have suggested that the rate-limiting step for
 The reaction of acetic acid to produce isobutene over ketonization of C2−C4 carboxylic acids over TiO2 and ZrO2 is
ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) is stable for over 5 h at 723 K for a C−C bond formation between 1-hydroxy enolate species and
steam-to-carbon ratio of 5.4, as shown in Figure S13. co-adsorbed acids bound at neighboring acid−base pairs
Interestingly, in contrast to the literature,19 we found that saturated with active monodentate carboxylates.64 Gumidyala
bulk ZnO is also capable of catalyzing the ketonization of et al. also proposed that C−C coupling is the rate-limiting step
acetic acid to acetone and subsequent isobutene formation at for acid-catalyzed ketonization of acetic acid over H-ZSM5 and
723 K and remains stable even though the reaction is much that water inhibits the reaction rate but improves catalyst
slower than over ZnxZryOz. The two leftmost entries in Figure stability.65 Gangadharan et al. have suggested that water
5 show a comparison of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) and bulk promotes propanal ketonization and inhibits aldol condensa-
ZnO for the reaction of acetic acid in the presence of water at tion over ceria modiﬁed zirconia (CexZr1−xO2) by increasing
723 K under the same reaction conditions and using the same the concentration of surface −OH groups that enhance the
 10596 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

formation of surface carboxylates with the aldehyde.66 A DFT in promoting the decomposition of C6 intermediates to
study of acetic acid ketonization over tetragonal zirconia isobutene and acetic acid. In this section, we discuss the
reported by Tosoni et al. has also highlighted the beneﬁcial condensation of acetone to diacetone alcohol and investigate
role of oxygen vacancies and reduced Zr3+ centers for the the role of mesityl oxide in the conversion of acetone to
ketonization reaction. The authors propose that the reaction isobutene. We then propose a reaction mechanism and use it
proceeds via adsorption of acetic acid followed by formation of to develop a rate expression for the conversion of acetone to
an enolate and an acyclic intermediate, which react together to isobutene.
form the β-keto acid.67 3.4.1. Acetone Condensation to Diacetone Alcohol. The
 Based upon our experimental observations and the ﬁrst step in the proposed reaction pathway for the conversion
precedent for Lewis acid−base-catalyzed ketonization in the of acetone to isobutene is the dimerization of acetone to
literature, we propose the mechanism for ketonization of acetic produce diacetone alcohol. The product distribution observed
acid to produce acetone and CO2 over ZnxZryOz shown in upon feeding diacetone alcohol to the reactor is nearly
Scheme 4. First, two acetic acid molecules adsorb onto acid− identical to that observed when acetone is the feed. In fact,
 upon introduction into the reactor via a syringe pump through
Scheme 4. Proposed Mechanism for the Ketonization of heated lines (∼367 K), the diacetone alcohol is already
Acetic Acid over ZnxZryOz. completely converted to acetone before reaching the catalyst
 bed, suggesting that this reaction step is reversible and that
 equilibrium lies strongly to the left. This ﬁnding is consistent
 with the calculated gas-phase free energy of reaction (+110.8
 kJ mol−1), which indicates that the reaction of acetone to
 diacetone alcohol is strongly disfavored (Figure S6). Studies in
 the literature indicate that both Brønsted acid sites and Lewis
 acid−base pairs can facilitate the activation of acetone.68−71
 Therefore, we assume that Lewis acid−base sites on the surface
 of ZnxZryOz are responsible for promoting the dimerization of
 acetone to diacetone alcohol.
 3.4.2. Reaction of Mesityl Oxide to Isobutene. Mesityl
 oxide is observed as a secondary product at low conversions for
 the reaction of ethanol to isobutene over bulk ZnO, and at low
 conversions for the reaction of acetone to isobutene over both
 ZnO and ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) (see Figure 2bi and Figure
 S7). However, the role of mesityl oxide as an intermediate is
 unclear. To better understand the role of mesityl oxide in the
 conversion of acetone to isobutene, the reaction of mesityl
 oxide to isobutene was investigated over both ZnxZryOz (2.2
 wt % Zn) and ZnO.
 Figure 6 shows the product distribution for reactions of
 mesityl oxide (90%, remainder 4-metylpent-4-en-2-one) over
base pairs, with the basic oxygen interacting with the hydrogen
on the hydroxyl group and the Lewis acidic Zn2+ interacting
with the carbonyl oxygen. Next, a basic oxygen abstracts a
hydrogen from the methyl group, producing a carbanion,
which then attacks the carbonyl group of the second acetic acid
to form a C−C bond in the rate-limiting step to produce an
adsorbed dimer. From there, subsequent dehydration and C−
C bond cleavage produce CO2 and acetone. The importance of
Lewis acidity is clear in the rate-limiting step as the Zn2+ cation
must be suﬃciently acidic to activate the adsorbed acetic acid.
We also point out that acetic acid ketonization is typically
carried out at lower temperatures (∼503 to 603 K)64,65 as Figure 6. Product distribution for the reaction of mesityl oxide over
opposed to 723 K, further suggesting that water is necessary to ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) and ZnO at varying space times and in the
prevent side reactions that may occur more readily at higher presence and absence of water. Reaction conditions are given in Table
temperatures. Desorption of acetone in the ﬁnal step is 4.
reversible, because although signiﬁcant amounts of acetone are
observed for this reaction, the dimerization of acetone requires ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) and ZnO at two diﬀerent space times
the adsorption of acetone on the catalyst surface. (Table 4, entries 1 and 2 and 4 and 5, respectively) and in the
 3.4. Conversion of Acetone to Isobutene. As absence of water (Table 4, entries 3 and 6). As shown in
demonstrated in Section 3.3, acetone is a critical intermediate Figure 6 and Table 4, entries 1 and 2 and 5 and 6, both
in the cascade of reactions leading from ethanol to isobutene. isobutene and acetone are formed. This indicates that the
The mechanism for the conversion of acetone to isobutene is acetone-to-diacetone alcohol-to-mesityl oxide pathway is
diﬃcult to probe as intermediates such as diacetone alcohol are reversible under reaction conditions. Therefore, it is not clear
unstable, and it is unclear whether mesityl oxide is an whether the reaction to form isobutene proceeds via hydrolysis
intermediate in this reaction pathway and what role water plays of mesityl oxide or whether the mesityl oxide is only a side
 10597 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

Table 4. Reaction Conditions for Figure 6a remains unclear at this stage whether mesityl oxide is a
 necessary intermediate for the formation of isobutene. To
 catalyst space time partial pressure
entry catalyst mass [mg] [hr g cat−1 m−2] H2O [kPa] further probe the acetone to isobutene reaction, additional rate
 measurements and isotopic labeling experiments were
 1 ZnxZryOz 2.2 4.9 1.7 13
 wt % Zn performed.
 2 ZnxZryOz 2.2 4.9 21.8 13 3.4.3. Kinetic Isotope Eﬀects for the Reaction of Acetone
 wt % Zn to Isobutene. The kinetic isotope eﬀect for the reaction of
 3 ZnxZryOz 2.2 4.9 1.7 0 acetone to isobutene was measured for both ZnxZryOz and
 wt % Zn ZnO to identify the rate-limiting step. A reaction temperature
 4 ZnO 60.8 1.5 13 of 623 K was selected so that rates of both mesityl oxide and
 5 ZnO 60.8 17.8 13 isobutene formation could be measured at low conversions and
 6 ZnO 60.8 1.5 0 with negligible catalyst deactivation. The results of the kinetic
a
 Additional reaction conditions: 723 K, 0.012 kPa initial 4- isotope eﬀect measurements are shown in Table 5. In
methylpent-4-en-2-one, 0.12 kPa initial mesityl oxide, 150 mL
min−1 He (entries 1, 3, 4, 6), 11.8 mL min−1 He (entry 2), 12.4
 Table 5. Kinetic Isotope Eﬀect Experiments for Acetone
mL min−1 He (entry 5). Entries 1,2,4,5, S/C = 6.3. Entries 3 and 6,
taken after 15 min time on stream. Conversion to Isobutene and Mesityl Oxidea
 observed KIE isobutene (kH/ observed KIE mesityl oxide
 kD) (kH/kD)
product. Increasing the space time for the reaction of mesityl ZnxZryOz ZnxZryOz
oxide and water over ZnxZryOz (Table 4, entries 1 and 2) and (2.2 wt % (2.2 wt %
ZnO (Table 4, entries 4 and 5) increases the selectivity to reactants Zn) ZnO Zn) ZnO
isobutene and the conversion of mesityl oxide and decreases acetone-d6 0.96 ± 0.20 1.34 ± 0.10 1.11 ± 0.10 1.11 ± 0.10
 and D2O
the selectivity to acetone, suggesting that acetone may be an
 acetone-d6 1.02 ± 0.29 1.12 ± 0.11 1.20 ± 0.11 1.07 ± 0.10
intermediate in the formation of isobutene from mesityl oxide and H2O
and water. As the space time increases, there is an increase in acetone 1.01 ± 0.10 1.14 ± 0.10 1.08 ± 0.10 1.18 ± 0.10
the formation of other side products, such as isophorone and and D2O
higher C9+ compounds, resulting from the condensation of a
 Reaction conditions: 623 K, 1 kPa acetone/acetone-d6, 15 kPa H2O/
mesityl oxide with acetone. These products are not observed D2O, WHSV 2.2 h−1, 50 mL min−1 He, 1 atm.
for the reaction of acetone and water over these catalysts under
the same reaction conditions and steam-to-carbon ratios,
suggesting that mesityl oxide is an intermediate for the agreement with Sun et al., we did not observe a signiﬁcant
formation of side products. In contrast to the reaction of kinetic isotope eﬀect for the formation of isobutene from
acetone to isobutene, for the reaction of mesityl oxide, both acetone over ZnxZryOz.16 We also measured kinetic isotope
ZnxZryOz and ZnO deactivate over the course of a few hours, eﬀects for the formation of isobutene from acetone over ZnO
even in the presence of water, as shown in Figure S16a,b. In and did not observe a kinetic isotope eﬀect. These ﬁndings
the absence of water, the activity of the catalysts decreases indicate that C−H bond cleavage is not involved in the rate-
rapidly after approximately 15 min of time on stream, as shown limiting step for the reaction of acetone to isobutene over
by entries 3 and 6 in Table 4. Evidence for coke formation was either ZnxZryOz or ZnO and suggest that the rate-limiting step
observed by the formation of high carbon number products for isobutene formation is not the dehydration of diacetone
(C9+) as well as visual observation of black deposits on the alcohol to produce mesityl oxide. We propose, instead, that it
catalyst after the reaction. must be either C−C bond formation occurring during acetone
 The initial feed for the mesityl oxide experiments contains coupling to form diacetone alcohol or the decomposition of
an equilibrated mixture of mesityl oxide with 10 mol % of the diacetone alcohol, which does not involve the breaking of C−
isomer 4-metylpent-4-en-2-one (4MPEO). At low space times H or O−H bonds. The formation of mesityl oxide was also not
for the reaction of mesityl oxide over ZnxZryOz and ZnO in the signiﬁcantly aﬀected by deuteration of either acetone or water
presence of water, the percentage of 4MPEO relative to mesityl over either ZnxZryOz or ZnO, conﬁrming that unimolecular
oxide increases to 17 mol % (entries 1 and 4). At higher space dehydration of diacetone alcohol is not rate-limiting for the
times, however, the percentage of 4MPEO drops to 8 and 9 dominant pathway toward forming either mesityl oxide or
mol % over ZnxZryOz and ZnO, respectively. In the absence of isobutene.
water, the activity of both catalysts is almost negligible, and the The slight kinetic isotope eﬀect for isobutene formation over
relative percent of 4MPEO is close to that in the feed (9 and ZnO in the presence of acetone-d6 and D2O and for mesityl
10 mol % 4MPEO for ZnxZryOz and ZnO, respectively). The oxide formation in the presence of acetone-d6 may be due to
increase in the relative partial pressure of 4MPEO at low space minor pathways toward isobutene and mesityl oxide formation
times suggests that mesityl oxide may undergo isomerization or that are limited by activation of water or C−H bond cleavage;
that mesityl oxide is consumed more rapidly than 4MPEO. however, because these kinetic isotope eﬀects are small and
 From these data, we conclude that over ZnxZryOz and ZnO, nearly within error, we suggest that the rate-limiting step for
the conversion of two molecules of acetone to produce mesityl the dominant pathway for isobutene formation is either C−C
oxide and water is reversible under reaction conditions, that coupling or decomposition of diacetone alcohol and that C−C
increasing space time leads to increasing conversion of mesityl coupling is the rate-limiting step for the dominant pathway for
oxide, and that the mechanism of catalyst deactivation comes mesityl oxide formation.
from the formation of condensation products that further 3.4.4. Roles of Acidity and Basicity for the Conversion of
oligomerize and contribute to coke formation. Because of the Acetone to Isobutene. The kinetic isotope experiments do not
reversible nature of the acetone to mesityl oxide reaction, it reveal whether the mechanism of acetone conversion to
 10598 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

isobutene is diﬀerent over ZnxZryOz versus ZnO. To further for each of the catalysts tested (Figure 7b), the subtler eﬀects
investigate the nature of the active sites for this reaction, the of Lewis acid/base ratios on selectivity can be observed for
eﬀect of Lewis acidity and basicity on the selectivity for the ZnxZryOz. The 2.2 wt % Zn catalyst exhibits a slightly higher
reaction of acetone to isobutene was probed. As demonstrated isobutene selectivity and the lowest selectivity toward side
previously, the acid−base properties of ZnxZryOz can be tuned products (methane, mesityl oxide, etc.) compared to catalysts
by adjusting the weight loading of Zn on the surface. The eﬀect with other weight loadings of Zn. This catalyst has an acid/
of Zn loading on the selectivity and activity for the acetone to base molar ratio of approximately 0.71. XRD and Raman
isobutene reaction is shown in Figure 7a in which 0 wt % Zn spectroscopy show that, at a Zn weight loading of 2.2%, nearly
corresponds to pure monoclinic zirconia and 80.3 wt % Zn all the zirconia has transformed from the monoclinic to the
corresponds to bulk zinc oxide. tetragonal phase (Figure 1a,b), suggesting that the surface
 contains a suﬃcient coverage of Zn to stabilize the tetragonal
 phase but does not yet form bulk ZnO clusters. As mentioned
 in Section 3.1, this suggests that the Zn−O−Zr interactions are
 more predominant at this intermediate Zn weight loading and
 that these moieties are beneﬁcial for promoting the reaction of
 acetone to isobutene. We therefore conclude that the
 formation of isobutene from acetone requires a balance of
 Lewis acid and base sites.
 3.4.5. Kinetics of the Acetone to Isobutene Reaction. To
 gain further insight into the mechanism and kinetics of acetone
 conversion to isobutene, a series of experiments were
 performed under conditions of diﬀerential conversion (<7%)
 in which the eﬀects of temperature, water partial pressure, and
 acetone partial pressure on the rates of formation of isobutene
 and mesityl oxide were measured.
 Figure 8 shows the eﬀects of water and acetone partial
 pressure on the rates of isobutene and mesityl oxide formation

Figure 7. (a) Conversion of acetone to isobutene as a function of Zn
weight loading. (b) Conversion and selectivity for the acetone to
isobutene reaction as a function of acid/base ratio. Reaction
conditions: 698 K, 0.5 kPa acetone, 30 kPa H2O, S/C = 8.2, 50
mL min−1 He, 1 m2 catalyst.

 Interestingly, above a Zn loading of 1.6 wt %, the selectivity
to isobutene remains relatively unchanged, exhibiting nearly
theoretical isobutene selectivities (∼80%), with some minor
formation of methane and trace amounts of mesityl oxide. In
contrast to the reaction of ethanol to isobutene, no propene
was observed, further suggesting that alcohols are required in
the feed to serve as reducing agents for the MPV reduction of
acetone to isopropanol, which then dehydrates to form
propene. The conversions for these catalysts are nearly the
same despite the diﬀerences in acidity and basicity. To assess
the eﬀects of catalyst acid−base properties on the selectivity of
the acetone to isobutene reaction, the conversion and
selectivity toward isobutene, methane, and mesityl oxide Figure 8. (a) Eﬀect of water partial pressure on the rate of isobutene
were plotted versus the total basicity measured from CO2- formation, (b) eﬀect of water partial pressure on the rate of mesityl
 oxide formation, (c) eﬀect of acetone partial pressure on the rate of
TPD, the total acidity measured via NH3-TPD, and the ratio of isobutene formation, (d) eﬀect of acetone partial pressure on the rate
Lewis acid to base concentrations. These plots are shown in of mesityl oxide formation. Reaction conditions: 623 K, atmospheric
Figure S17a,b and Figure 7b, respectively. Figure 7b clearly pressure, 5.5 mg of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), 50 mL min−1 He. Solid
shows that the most acidic catalyst (ZrO2) exhibits higher lines represent a ﬁt to the kinetic model given by eq 2. Dashed lines
methane formation. This is in agreement with the results of are a guide for the eye. Hollow data points refer to initial rates after
Takanabe et al., who found that CO2 and CH4 were the major which the catalyst rapidly deactivates.
products of steam reforming of acetone over ZrO2.72
Therefore, we suggest that the addition of Zn suppresses the over ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn) at 623 K. As evidenced by
decomposition of acetone to methane by lowering both the Figures 8a,b, water inhibits both isobutene and mesityl oxide
strength and quantity of Lewis acid sites. formation; however, water is necessary to prevent deactivation,
 Apart from the highly acidic ZrO2, which exhibits a lower which occurs when the steam-to-carbon ratio drops below 5.
isobutene selectivity, there is no clear correlation between Figure 8c,d shows that the rate of isobutene formation lies
catalyst acidity and basicity, and the observed trends in between zero and ﬁrst order in acetone partial pressure and the
product selectivity (Figure S17a,b). However, by plotting rate of mesityl oxide formation is between ﬁrst and second
product selectivity versus the molar ratio of acid to base sites order in acetone partial pressure. This suggests a mechanism in
 10599 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

which mesityl oxide formation is limited by the surface lies in favor of acetone at higher temperatures. Figure 10 shows
reaction of two molecules of acetone, and the isobutene that while the rate of mesityl oxide formation increases with
formation reaction is both promoted and inhibited by acetone increasing partial pressure of acetone, the rate of this reaction
on the surface. at a given partial pressure of acetone and water is nearly
 Further information about the kinetics of acetone con- independent of the temperature between 623 and 723 K. The
version to isobutene was obtained by measuring the initial ratio of isobutene to mesityl oxide formed as a function of
rates of isobutene and mesityl oxide formation as a function of acetone and water partial pressure at 623, 673, and 723 K is
acetone and water partial pressure at 673 K and 723 K. The presented in Figure 11. The selectivity toward isobutene
resulting data are shown in Figures 9 and 10. Figure 9 shows increases with increasing water partial pressure and decreases
 with increasing acetone partial pressure, demonstrating that
 water inhibits mesityl oxide formation more than isobutene
 formation. The selectivity to isobutene relative to mesityl oxide
 also increases as temperature increases because the rates of
 mesityl oxide formation are relatively unaﬀected by temper-
 ature but the activation energy for isobutene formation is
 positive.
 3.4.6. Proposed Mechanism and Kinetic Model for
 Acetone Conversion to Isobutene. Based on the measured
 kinetics and the proposed roles of acid and base sites for the
 reactions of acetone, diacetone alcohol, and mesityl oxide to
 isobutene, we propose the mechanism for the conversion of
 acetone to isobutene shown in Scheme 5. The ﬁrst step is the
 coupling of acetone to form diacetone alcohol. The ﬁrst
 acetone adsorbs onto a Lewis acid site, and a basic oxygen
 abstracts a hydrogen from one of the methyl groups. The
 second acetone adsorbs onto an adjacent acid site and is
 attacked by the carbanion, forming a C−C bond. A hydrogen
 cation is then added to the negatively charged oxygen,
Figure 9. Rate of isobutene formation as function of temperature and producing adsorbed diacetone alcohol.
reactant partial pressures. Reaction conditions: atmospheric pressure, There are several possible pathways for the formation of
5.5 mg of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), 50 mL min−1 He, Xacetone < 7%, isobutene and acetic acid from adsorbed diacetone alcohol, as
(a) 0.27 kPa acetone, (b) 0.5 kPa acetone, (c) 0.75 kPa acetone, and shown in Scheme 5. The ﬁrst is the rightmost pathway shown
(d) 1 kPa acetone. Solid lines represent a ﬁt of eq 2 to the in this scheme. Water adsorbs dissociatively and forms a
experimental data.
 temporary Brønsted acidic proton, which protonates the
 hydroxyl group of the adsorbed diacetone alcohol. Next, in a
 concerted step, the hydroxyl group that came from water adds
 to the carbonyl group while the C−C bond is broken to form
 isobutene, water, and acetic acid. In the second pathway, a
 variant of the ﬁrst, diacetone alcohol adds a proton produced
 by heterolytic dissociation of water and then undergoes
 dehydration, leaving behind a carbocation intermediate. The
 next step is then the addition of a hydroxyl group, produced by
 the heterolytic dissociation of water, to the carbonyl group
 followed by C−C bond cleavage to produce isobutene and
 acetic acid. The third pathway (left) involves Lewis acid-
 catalyzed dehydration of diacetone alcohol to form mesityl
 oxide, which either desorbs from the surface or abstracts a
 hydrogen from the catalyst surface to produce the carbocation
 intermediate in the middle pathway. This intermediate then
 forms isobutene and acetic acid by addition of a hydroxyl
 group and cleavage of the C−C bond. In each of these three
 cases, the key transition state involves a partial bond between
Figure 10. Rate of mesityl oxide formation as a function of the hydroxyl group and the carbonyl, the breaking of a C−C
temperature and reactant partial pressures. Reaction conditions: bond, the formation of a CC double bond, and a partial
atmospheric pressure, 5.5 mg of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), 50 mL positive charge on the most substituted carbon. The acetic acid
min−1 He, Xacetone < 7%, (a) 0.27 kPa acetone, (b) 0.5 kPa acetone, formed then undergoes further ketonization to produce more
(c) 0.75 kPa acetone, and (d) 1 kPa acetone. Dashed lines are a guide surface acetone, water, and CO2.
for the eye. Two diﬀerent rate expressions for the reaction kinetics were
 developed and ﬁt to the experimental data. Equation 1 was
that rate of isobutene formation increases with increasing derived for the case in which the rate-limiting step is C−C
temperature. As the temperature increases, the inhibiting coupling of acetone to produce diacetone alcohol (labeled “a”
eﬀects of water are less prominent, suggesting that the on Scheme 5), and eq 2 was derived for the case in which the
competitive adsorption of acetone and water on active sites rate-limiting step is the decomposition of the C6 intermediate
 10600 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

Figure 11. Selectivity ratio of isobutene to mesityl oxide (carbon %) as a function of temperature and partial pressure of reactants. Reaction
conditions: atmospheric pressure, 5.5 mg of ZnxZryOz (2.2 wt % Zn), 50 mL min−1 He, Xacetone < 7%, (a) 623, (b) 673, and (c) 723 K. Hollow data
points represent initial rates measured for conditions that resulted in catalyst deactivation. Dashed lines are a guide for the eye.

 i y
 k1KA 2PA 2 − k −1jjj (k +1k A+ Ak P ) zzz
 k 3 H2O {
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanism for the Conversion of k K 2P 2
Acetone to Isobutene and Acetic Acid −1 2
 risobutene =
 (KAPA + K H2OPH2O)2 (1)
 k1KA 2PA 2k 3K H2OPH2O
 (k −1 + k 2 + k 3PH2O)
 risobutene =
 (KAPA + K H2OPH2O)3 (2)
 These equations were derived with the following assump-
 tions: the adsorption and desorption of acetone and water are
 quasi-equilibrated; the ketonization of acetic acid is rapid; the
 pseudo-steady-state approximation can be applied to the rate
 of formation of diacetone alcohol; the surface is saturated with
 acetone and water; and the partial pressure of mesityl oxide is
 negligible (as rates of mesityl oxide formation become zero
 upon extrapolating to zero conversion). It should also be noted
 that the rate expression derived from eq 1 would be the same if
 mesityl oxide were an intermediate for isobutene formation
 because C−C bond formation would still be rate limiting.
 Equations 1 and 2 were ﬁt to the measured rate data taken as
 a function of temperature, partial pressure of H2O, and partial
 pressure of acetone by adjusting the rate parameters to
 minimize the sum of the squares of the residuals. The form of
 eq 2 is a more accurate representation of the data, as evidenced
 by the parity plots shown in Figure 12, suggesting that the rate-

(either protonated diacetone alcohol or a C6 carbocation
intermediate) to produce isobutene and acetic acid (labeled
“b” or “c” on Scheme 5). The step marked “d” in Scheme 5 was
not considered as a rate-limiting step for isobutene formation
 Figure 12. Parity plots for the rate of isobutene formation for (a)
because no signiﬁcant kinetic isotope eﬀect was observed for model 1 based upon eq 1 and (b) model 2 based upon eq 2. Green
deuterated acetone. The full derivations of these rate squares, 573 K; yellow triangles, 623 K; red diamonds, 673 K.
expressions based upon the elementary steps, assumptions,
and site balances, as well as descriptions of the rate constants, limiting step for isobutene formation is the decomposition of
are given in the Supporting Information. In eqs 1 and 2, given diacetone alcohol. The model for the case in which the rate of
below, PA and PH2O are the partial pressures of acetone and isobutene formation is limited by C−C coupling of diacetone
water, respectively; k1 and k−1 are the forward and reverse rate alcohol ﬁts well at low acetone partial pressures and low
constants for the coupling of acetone to diacetone alcohol; KA temperatures but breaks down at high temperatures and high
 partial pressures of acetone. This could be explained by the fact
and KH2O are the equilibrium constants for the adsorption of
 that, while water inhibits the reaction by occupying active sites,
acetone and water onto active sites, respectively; k2 is the rate it is necessary to prevent deactivation and promote the
constant for the dehydration of diacetone alcohol to produce decomposition of diacetone alcohol by providing surface
mesityl oxide; and k3 is the rate constant for the decomposition hydroxyl groups and Brønsted acidic protons. This promoting
of diacetone alcohol to produce isobutene and acetic acid. role of water is not as captured in the ﬁrst model. The rate
 10601 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

parameters obtained from the ﬁt of the rate data to eq 2 are to acetaldehyde (and thus acetone) and reduces the
given in Table S2, and the Arrhenius plots are given in Figure decomposition of acetone to CH4 and CO2.
S18. The resulting apparent activation energy for isobutene Since acetone is a key intermediate to the formation of
formation is 160 ± 19 kJ mol−1. isobutene from ethanol, we studied the mechanism and
 Based upon measurements of the reaction kinetics, the kinetics of this reaction in detail. Acetone undergoes
measured kinetic isotope eﬀects, and the eﬀect of the acid/base condensation to diacetone alcohol on ZnxZryOz. This product
ratio on the kinetics of the acetone to isobutene conversion, we then forms mesityl oxide by dehydration and isobutene and
conclude that the acetone to isobutene reaction proceeds via acetic acid by decomposition. The acetic acid produced as a
C−C coupling to produce diaceteone alcohol followed by byproduct of the last reaction undergoes further ketonization
protonation and concerted −OH addition and C−C bond to form acetone. The reaction of diacetone alcohol produces
cleavage to produce isobutene and acetic acid, which acetone as the principal product, indicating that the
undergoes further condensation to produce acetone. Isobutene condensation of acetone to diacetone alcohol is reversible,
may also form via dehydration to mesityl oxide followed by consistent with the thermodynamics of this reaction. Measure-
hydrolysis of the addition product in a secondary pathway. As ments of the kinetic isotope eﬀect for the reaction of acetone
observed from the infrared spectra of adsorbed pyridine and to isobutene suggest that the rate-limiting step is either the
the NH3 TPD spectrum of ZnxZryOz, signiﬁcant quantities of coupling of acetone to diacetone alcohol or the decomposition
Brønsted acid sites were not identiﬁed, suggesting that the of diacetone alcohol. Modeling the eﬀects of water and acetone
Brønsted acidic protons involved in the reaction are generated partial pressure on the rate of isobutene formation over
from water during the reaction. DFT calculations reported by ZnxZryOz supports the conclusion that the rate-limiting step is
Sun et al. concluded that water dissociation occurs on Zn- the decomposition of diacetone alcohol. While water inhibits
modiﬁed ZrO2 (111), and DRIFTS spectra of adsorbed D2O the rate of isobutene formation, it is necessary to hydrate the
acquired by the authors suggested that water dissociation catalyst surface to promote the oxidation of acetaldehyde to
occurs over ZrO2 and Zn1Zn10Oz.16 Our model of the kinetics acetic acid. The presence of water vapor also inhibits the
of isobutene formation from acetone, which involves the dehydration of ethanol to ethene and diacetone alcohol to
dissociative adsorption of water, is consistent with our mesityl oxide, which forms condensation products that lead to
experimental observation of the eﬀects of water partial pressure coke formation and catalyst deactivation. A rate expression for
on the kinetics. the formation of isobutene from acetone developed from our
 In both pathways, the key transition state for isobutene understanding of the reaction mechanism is in good agreement
formation from the C6 intermediate involves the addition of a with our observation of the eﬀects of acetone and water partial
surface hydroxyl group to the carbonyl group as the C−C bond pressures and of temperature.
is broken. We ﬁnd that the role of water for the conversion of Our studies reported in Section 3.3 indicate that successful
acetone to isobutene is to prevent deactivation and inhibit conversion of ethanol to acetone over ZnxZryOz requires
acetone decomposition to methane and CO2, and we suggest avoidance of ethanol dehydration. This reaction can be
that water dissociates to produce protons and hydroxyl groups minimized at 698 K using S/C = 5 and high space times to
that participate in the decomposition of the C6 intermediates. promote the cascade reaction. Section 3.4 shows that optimal
The addition of water shifts the equilibrium toward diacetone yields of isobutene from acetone over ZnxZryOz can be
alcohol and away from mesityl oxide, thereby preventing side- achieved at 723 K with S/C = 5, under which conditions the
product formation and limiting the coupling of mesityl oxide activity is high and the temperature is high enough to limit
with acetone to produce C9 compounds, such as isophorone mesityl oxide formation but low enough to prevent acetone
and mesitylene, which contribute to coke formation. decomposition to methane and CO2 as well as the formation of
 C9 condensation products, which lead to coke formation.
4. CONCLUSIONS Ultimately, a two-step process in which ethanol is ﬁrst
We have undertaken a comprehensive study of the reaction converted to acetone at 698 K followed by acetone conversion
pathway, mechanism, and roles of acid and base sites for the to isobutene at 723 K could be employed to optimize yields of
reactions of ethanol and acetone to isobutene over ZnxZryOz. isobutene from ethanol. Overall, this study provides a clear
An important ﬁnding is that the distribution of products sequence of reactions for the conversion of ethanol and
formed is a strong function of the acid/base properties of the acetone to isobutene over ZrO2, ZnO, and ZnxZryOz. It also
catalysts. Dispersion of zinc oxide on zirconia produces Zn− answers some key questions concerning the mechanism, site
O−Zr moieties that exhibit Lewis basic sites weaker in base requirements, and role of water in the selective formation of
strength than those on ZnO, and Lewis acidic sites that are isobutene from renewable platform molecules.
weak to moderate in strength. The ratio between Lewis acidic
and Lewis basic sites depends on the amount of Zn dispersed
on the surface of zirconia. A further consequence of dispersing
 ■
 *
 ASSOCIATED CONTENT
 S Supporting Information
zinc oxide on zirconia is the transformation of monoclinic The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the
ZrO2 to the tetragonal phase. ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045.
 The reaction of ethanol to isobutene proceeds via ethanol
dehydrogenation to acetaldehyde, oxidation of acetaldehyde to Mechanism of propene formation from ethanol and
acetic acid, and ketonization of acetic acid to acetone. While acetone via MPV reduction (Scheme S1); supplemental
acetone is a key intermediate in the conversion of ethanol to catalyst characterization (ICP, DRIFTS-py, NH3-TPD,
isobutene, ethanol can also undergo dehydration to produce CO2-TPD) (Figures S1−S5, Table S1); gas-phase free
ethene, and acetone can decompose to form methane and energy of formation calculated from DFT (Figure S6);
CO2. The introduction of basicity on the surface of ZnxZryOz supplemental kinetic measurements (Figures S7−S17);
reduces the selectivity for ethanol conversion to ethene versus kinetic parameters from model 2 (Table S2); Arrhenius

 10602 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

 plots for rate constants given in Table S2 (Figure S18); (14) Kujawska, A.; Kujawski, J.; Bryjak, M.; Kujawski, W. ABE
 and derivation of rate expressions (PDF) Fermentation Products Recovery methodsA Review. Renewable
 Sustainable Energy Rev. 2015, 48, 648−661.

■ AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Author
 (15) Sun, J.; Zhu, K.; Gao, F.; Wang, C.; Liu, J.; Peden, C. H. F.;
 Wang, Y. Direct Conversion of Bio-Ethanol to Isobutene on
 Nanosized ZnxZryOz Mixed Oxides with Balanced Acid-Base Sites.
 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 11096−11099.
*E-mail: alexbell@berkeley.edu. (16) Sun, J.; Baylon, R. A. L.; Liu, C.; Mei, D.; Martin, K. J.;
ORCID Venkitasubramanian, P.; Wang, Y. Key Roles of Lewis Acid−Base
 Pairs on ZnxZryOz in Direct Ethanol/Acetone to Isobutene
F. Dean Toste: 0000-0001-8018-2198 Conversion. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 507−517.
Alexis T. Bell: 0000-0002-5738-4645 (17) Liu, C.; Sun, J.; Smith, C.; Wang, Y. A Study of ZnxZryOz
Notes Mixed Oxides for Direct Conversion of Ethanol to Isobutene. Appl.
The authors declare no competing ﬁnancial interest. Catal., A 2013, 467, 91−97.

■
 (18) Li, H.; Sun, J.; Wang, Y. Surface Acetone Reactions on
 ZnxZryOz: A DRIFTS-MS Study. Appl. Catal., A 2019, 573, 22−31.
 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS (19) Crisci, A. J.; Dou, H.; Prasomsri, T.; Román-Leshkov, Y.
This work was funded by the Director, Oﬃce of Science, Cascade Reactions for the Continuous and Selective Production of
Oﬃce of Basic Energy Sciences of the U.S. Department of Isobutene from Bioderived Acetic Acid Over Zinc-Zirconia Catalysts.
Energy under contract no. DE-AC02-05CH11231. J.R. would ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 4196−4200.
also like to acknowledge funding from the National Science (20) Herrmann, S.; Iglesia, E. Selective Conversion of Acetone to
Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (grant no. DGE Isobutene and Acetic Acid on Aluminosilicates: Kinetic Coupling
1106400). The authors thank Darinka Primc and Ezra Clark between Acid-Catalyzed and Radical-Mediated Pathways. J. Catal.
 2018, 360, 66−80.
for assistance with the collection of Raman Spectra and SEM (21) Hutchings, G. J.; Johnston, P.; Lee, D. F.; Williams, C. D.
data, respectively. The authors also thank Christopher Ho for Acetone Conversion to Isobutene in High Selectivity Using Zeolite β
useful discussion and assistance with QChem calculations.

■
 Catalyst. Catal. Lett. 1993, 21, 49−53.
 (22) Ponomareva, O. A.; Mal’tseva, A. A.; Maerle, A. A.; Rodionova,
 REFERENCES L. I.; Pavlov, V. S.; Dobryakova, I. V; Belova, M. V; Ivanova, I. I.
 (1) Mascal, M. Chemicals from Biobutanol: Technologies and Production of Isobutylene from Acetone over Micro − Mesoporous
Markets. Biofuels, Bioprod. Biorefin. 2012, 6, 483−493. Catalysts. Pet. Chem. 2016, 56, 253−258.
 (2) Collignon, F.; Mariani, M.; Moreno, S.; Remy, M.; Poncelet, G. (23) Barton, D. G.; Soled, S. L.; Meitzner, G.D.; Fuentes, G. A.;
Gas Phase Synthesis of MTBE from Methanol and Isobutene over Iglesia, E. Structural and Catalytic Characterization of Solid Acids
Dealuminated Zeolites. J. Catal. 1997, 166, 53−66. Based on Zirconia Modified by Tungsten Oxide. J. Catal. 1999, 181,
 (3) Rorrer, J. E.; Bell, A. T.; Toste, F. D. Synthesis of Biomass- 57−72.
Derived Ethers for Use as Fuels and Lubricants. ChemSusChem 2019, (24) Rorrer, J.; He, Y.; Toste, F. D.; Bell, A. T. Mechanism and
12, 2835−2858. Kinetics of 1-Dodecanol Etherification over Tungstated Zirconia. J.
 (4) Bender, M. An Overview of Industrial Processes for the Catal. 2017, 354, 13−23.
Production of Olefins - C4 Hydrocarbons. ChemBioEng Rev. 2014, 1, (25) Rorrer, J.; Pindi, S.; Toste, F. D.; Bell, A. T. Effect of Alcohol
136−147. Structure on the Kinetics of Etherification and Dehydration over
 (5) Li, Y.; He, D.; Zhu, Q.; Zhang, X.; Xu, B. Effects of Redox Tungstated Zirconia. ChemSusChem 2018, 11, 3104−3111.
Properties and Acid−Base Properties on Isosynthesis over ZrO2- (26) Zhao, B.; Men, Y.; Zhang, A.; Wang, J.; He, R.; An, W.; Li, S.
Based Catalysts. J. Catal. 2004, 221, 584−593. Influence of Different Precursors on Isobutene Production from Bio-
 (6) Erkey, C.; Wang, J.; Postula, W.; Feng, Z.; Philip, C. V.; Ethanol over Bifunctional Zn1Zr10Ox Catalysts. Appl. Catal., A 2018,
Akgerman, A.; Anthony, R. G. Isobutylene Production from Synthesis 558, 150−160.
Gas over Zirconia in a Slurry Reactor. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1995, 34, (27) Phadke, N. M.; Van Der Mynsbrugge, J.; Mansoor, E.;
1021−1026. Getsoian, A. B.; Head-gordon, M.; Bell, A. T. Characterization of
 (7) Tseng, S. C.; Jackson, N. B.; Ekerdt, J. G. Isosynthesis Reactions Isolated Ga3+ Cations in Ga/H-MFI Prepared by Vapor-Phase
of COH2 over Zirconium Dioxide. J. Catal. 1988, 109, 284−297. Exchange of H-MFI Zeolite with GaCl3. ACS Catal. 2018, 8,
 (8) Maruya, K.; Komiya, T.; Hayakawa, T.; Lu, L.; Yashima, M. 6106−6126.
Active Sites on ZrO2 for the Formation of Isobutene from CO and (28) Szulejko, J. E.; Kim, Y. H.; Kim, K. H. Method to Predict Gas
H2. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2000, 159, 97−102. Chromatographic Response Factors for the Trace-Level Analysis of
 (9) Chapman, L. Transport and Climate Change: A Review. J. Volatile Organic Compounds Based on the Effective Carbon Number
Transp. Geogr. 2007, 15, 354−367. Concept. J. Sep. Sci. 2013, 36, 3356−3365.
 (10) Dagle, V. L.; Smith, C.; Flake, M.; Albrecht, K. O.; Gray, M. J.; (29) López, D. E.; Suwannakarn, K.; Bruce, D. A.; Goodwin, J. G., Jr.
Ramasamy, K. K.; Dagle, R. A. Integrated Process for the Catalytic Esterification and Transesterification on Tungstated Zirconia: Effect
Conversion of Biomass-Derived Syngas into Transportation Fuels. of Calcination Temperature. J. Catal. 2007, 247, 43−50.
Green Chem. 2016, 18, 1880−1891. (30) Zhao, Y.; Li, W.; Zhang, M.; Tao, K. A Comparison of Surface
 (11) Van Leeuwen, B. N. M.; Van Der Wulp, A. M.; Duijnstee, I.; Acidic Features between Tetragonal and Monoclinic Nanostructured
Van Maris, A. J. A.; Straathof, A. J. J. Fermentative Production of Zirconia. Catal. Commun. 2002, 3, 239−245.
Isobutene. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2012, 93, 1377−1387. (31) Rao, G. S.; Rajan, N. P.; Pavankumar, V.; Chary, K. V. R.
 (12) Qureshi, N.; Blaschek, H. P. Recent Advances in ABE Vapour Phase Dehydration of Glycerol to Acrolein over NbOPO4
Fermentation: Hyper-Butanol Producing Clostridium Beijerinckii Catalysts. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 2014, 89, 1890−1897.
BA101. J. Ind. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2001, 27, 287−291. (32) Larsen, G.; Lotero, E.; Raghavan, S.; Parra, R. D.; Querini, C. A.
 (13) Sreekumar, S.; Baer, Z. C.; Pazhamalai, A.; Gunbas, G.; Grippo, A Study of Platinum Supported on Tungstated Zirconia Catalysts.
A.; Blanch, H. W.; Clark, D. S.; Toste, F. D. Production of an Appl. Catal., A 1996, 139, 201−211.
Acetone-Butanol-Ethanol Mixture from Clostridium Acetobutylicum (33) Das, J.; Pradhan, S. K.; Sahu, D. R.; Mishra, D. K.; Sarangi, S.
and Its Conversion to High-Value Biofuels. Nat. Protoc. 2015, 10, N.; Nayak, B. B.; Verma, S.; Roul, B. K. Micro-Raman and XPS
528−537. Studies of Pure ZnO Ceramics. Phys. B 2010, 405, 2492−2497.

 10603 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604
ACS Catalysis Research Article

 (34) Dawood, F.; Schaak, R. E. ZnO-Templated Synthesis of Reaction Conditions and Deduction of Reaction Mechanism. Appl.
Wurtzite-Type ZnS and ZnSe Nanoparticles. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, Catal. 1989, 52, 237−248.
131, 424−425. (55) Rahman, M. M.; Davidson, S. D.; Sun, J.; Wang, Y. Effect of
 (35) Rodriguez, J. A.; Wang, X.; Liu, G.; Hanson, J. C.; Hrbek, J.; Water on Ethanol Conversion over ZnO. Top. Catal. 2016, 59, 37−
Peden, C. H. F.; Iglesias-Juez, A.; Fernández-García, M. Physical and 45.
Chemical Properties of Ce 1 − x Zr x O 2 Nanoparticles and (56) Silva-Calpa, L. del R.; Zonetti, P. C.; Rodrigues, C. P.; Alves, O.
Ce1−xZrxO2(111) Surfaces : Synchrotron-Based Studies. J. Mol. C.; Appel, L. G.; de Avillez, R. R. The ZnxZr1−xO2−y Solid Solution on
Catal. A: Chem. 2005, 425, 166−173. m-ZrO2: Creating O Vacancies and Improving the m-ZrO2 Redox
 (36) Baylon, R. A. L.; Sun, J.; Kovarik, L.; Engelhard, M.; Li, H.; Properties. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2016, 425, 166−173.
Winkelman, A. D.; Martin, K. J.; Wang, Y. Structural Identification of (57) Silva-Calpa, L. d. R.; Zonetti, P. C.; de Oliveira, D. C.; de
ZnxZryOz Catalysts for Cascade Aldolization and Self-Deoxygenation Avillez, R. R.; Appel, L. G. Acetone from Ethanol Employing
Reactions. Appl. Catal., B 2018, 234, 337−346. ZnxZr1−xO2−y. Catal. Today 2017, 289, 264−272.
 (37) Li, M.; Feng, Z.; Xiong, G.; Ying, P.; Xin, Q.; Li, C. Phase (58) Pala, R. G. S.; Metiu, H. Modification of the Oxidative Power of
Transformation in the Surface Region of Zirconia Detected by UV ZnO(101̅0) Surface by Substituting Some Surface Zn Atoms with
Raman Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 8107−8111. Other Metals. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 8617−8622.
 (38) Li, C.; Li, M. UV Raman Spectroscopic Study on the Phase (59) McFarland, E. W.; Metiu, H. Catalysis by Doped Oxides. Chem.
Transformation of ZrO2, Y2O3-ZrO2 and SO42‑/ZrO2. J. Raman Rev. 2013, 113, 4391−4427.
Spectrosc. 2002, 33, 301−308. (60) Chen, B.; Ma, Y.; Ding, L.; Xu, L.; Wu, Z.; Yuan, Q.; Huang, W.
 (39) Kourieh, R.; Bennici, S.; Auroux, A. Acid and Redox Properties Reactivity of Hydroxyls and Water on a CeO2(111) Thin Film
 Surface: The Role of Oxygen Vacancy. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117,
of Tungstated Zirconia Catalysts. React. Kinet., Mech. Catal. 2012,
 5800−5810.
105, 101−111.
 (61) Chenu, E.; Jacobs, G.; Crawford, A. C.; Keogh, R. A.; Patterson,
 (40) Pokrovski, K.; Jung, K. T.; Bell, A. T. Investigation of CO and
 P. M.; Sparks, D. E.; Davis, B. H. Water-Gas Shift: An Examination of
CO2 Adsorption on Tetragonal and Monoclinic Zirconia. Langmuir
 Pt Promoted MgO and Tetragonal and Monoclinic ZrO2 by in Situ
2001, 4297−4303. Drifts. Appl. Catal., B 2005, 59, 45−56.
 (41) Ma, Z.-Y.; Yang, C.; Wei, W.; Li, W.-H.; Sun, Y.-H. Surface (62) Wang, Y.; Muhler, M.; Wöll, C. Spectroscopic Evidence for the
Properties and CO Adsorption on Zirconia Polymorphs. J. Mol. Catal. Partial Dissociation of H2O on ZnO(101̅0). Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.
A: Chem. 2005, 227, 119−124. 2006, 8, 1521−1524.
 (42) Kouva, S.; Honkala, K.; Lefferts, L.; Kanervo, J. Review: (63) Pham, T. N.; Sooknoi, T.; Crossley, S. P.; Resasco, D. E.
Monoclinic Zirconia, Its Surface Sites and Their Interaction with Ketonization of Carboxylic Acids: Mechanisms, Catalysts, and
Carbon Monoxide. Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 3473−3490. Implications for Biomass Conversion. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 2456−
 (43) Matheus, C. R. V.; Chagas, L. H.; Gonzalez, G. G.; Aguiar, E. F. 2473.
S.; Appel, L. G. Synthesis of Propene from Ethanol: A Mechanistic (64) Wang, S.; Iglesia, E. Experimental and Theoretical Assessment
Study. ACS Catal. 2018, 7667−7678. of the Mechanism and Site Requirements for Ketonization of
 (44) Iwamoto, M. Selective Catalytic Conversion of Bio-Ethanol to Carboxylic Acids on Oxides. J. Catal. 2017, 345, 183−206.
Propene: A Review of Catalysts and Reaction Pathways. Catal. Today (65) Gumidyala, A.; Sooknoi, T.; Crossley, S. Selective Ketonization
2015, 242, 243−248. of Acetic Acid over HZSM-5 : The Importance of Acyl Species and
 (45) Kostestkyy, P.; Yu, J.; Gorte, R. J.; Mpourmpakis, G. Structure− the Influence of Water. J. Catal. 2016, 340, 76−84.
Activity Relationships on Metal-Oxides: Alcohol Dehydration. Catal. (66) Gangadharan, A.; Shen, M.; Sooknoi, T.; Resasco, D. E.;
Sci. Technol. 2014, 4, 3861. Mallinson, R. G. Condensation Reactions of Propanal over
 (46) Xia, W.; Wang, F.; Mu, X.; Chen, K. Remarkably Enhanced CexZr1‑XO2 Mixed Oxide Catalysts. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 385, 80−91.
Selectivity for Conversion of Ethanol to Propylene over ZrO2 (67) Tosoni, S.; Pacchioni, G. Acetic Acid Ketonization on
Catalysts. Fuel Process. Technol. 2017, 166, 140−145. Tetragonal Zirconia : Role of Surface Reduction. J. Catal. 2016,
 (47) Chieregato, A.; Ochoa, J. V.; Bandinelli, C.; Fornasari, G.; 344, 465−473.
Cavani, F.; Mella, M. On the Chemistry of Ethanol on Basic Oxides: (68) Fu, Y.; Zhang, L.; Yue, B.; Chen, X.; He, H. Simultaneous
Revising Mechanisms and Intermediates in the Lebedev and Guerbet Characterization of Solid Acidity and Basicity of Metal Oxide
Reactions. ChemSusChem 2015, 8, 377−388. Catalysts via the Solid-State NMR Technique. J. Phys. Chem. C
 (48) Ho, C. R.; Shylesh, S.; Bell, A. T. Mechanism and Kinetics of 2018, 24094.
Ethanol Coupling to Butanol over Hydroxyapatite. ACS Catal. 2016, (69) Zaki, M. I.; Hasan, M. A.; Pasupulety, L. Surface Reactions of
6, 939−948. Acetone on Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, and CeO2: IR Spectroscopic
 (49) Kang, M.; DeWilde, J. F.; Bhan, A. Kinetics and Mechanism of Assessment of Impacts of the Surface Acid-Base Properties. Langmuir
Alcohol Dehydration on γ-Al2O3: Effects of Carbon Chain Length 2001, 17, 768−774.
and Substitution. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 602−612. (70) Biaglow, A. I.; Sepa, J.; Gorte, R. J.; White, D. A 13C NMR
 (50) DeWilde, J. F.; Chiang, H.; Hickman, D. A.; Ho, C. R.; Bhan, A. Study of the Condensation Chemistry of Acetone and Acetaldehyde
Kinetics and Mechanism of Ethanol Dehydration on γ-Al2O3: The Adsorbed at the Brønsted Acid Sites in H-ZSM-5. J. Catal. 1995, 151,
Critical Role of Dimer Inhibition. ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 798−807. 373−384.
 (51) Fan, D.; Dai, D.-J.; Wu, H.-S. Ethylene Formation by Catalytic (71) Xu, T.; Munson, E. J.; Haw, J. F. Toward a Systematic
Dehydration of Ethanol with Industrial Considerations. Materials Chemistry of Organic Reactions in Zeolites: In Situ NMR Studies of
2013, 6, 101−115. Ketones. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 1962−1972.
 (52) Eagan, N. M.; Kumbhalkar, M. D.; Buchanan, J. S.; Dumesic, J. (72) Takanabe, K.; Aika, K.; Seshan, K.; Lefferts, L. Catalyst
A.; Huber, G. W. Chemistries and Processes for the Conversion of Deactivation during Steam Reforming of Acetic Acid over Pt/ZrO2.
Ethanol into Middle-Distillate Fuels. Nat. Rev. Chem. 2019, 3, 223− Chem. Eng. J. 2006, 120, 133−137.
249.
 (53) Vohs, J. M.; Barteau, M. A. Dehydration and Dehydrogenation
of Ethanol and 1-Propanol on the Polar Surfaces of Zinc Oxide. Surf.
Sci. 1989, 221, 590−608.
 (54) Nakajima, T.; Tanabe, K.; Yamaguchi, T.; Matsuzaki, I.;
Mishima, S. Conversion of Ethanol to Acetone over Zinc Oxide-
Calcium Oxide catalyst Optimization of Catalyst Preparation and

 10604 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.9b03045
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10588−10604