Review
 www.small-journal.com

Advanced Transition Metal-Based OER Electrocatalysts:
Current Status, Opportunities, and Challenges
Kexin Zhang and Ruqiang Zou*

 and sustainable energy sources, which
Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is an important half-reaction involved in have been considered as an encour-
many electrochemical applications, such as water splitting and rechargeable aging solution to significantly reduce the
metal–air batteries. However, the sluggish kinetics of its four-electron transfer dependency on traditional fossil fuels.
process becomes a bottleneck to the performance enhancement. Thus, Hydrogen is a promising clean energy car-
 rier by virtue of zero-carbon content and
rational design of electrocatalysts for OER based on thorough understanding
 the highest gravimetric energy density.[1]
of mechanisms and structure-activity relationship is of vital significance. In this scenario, hydrogen production
This review begins with the introduction of OER mechanisms which include through electricity-driven water splitting
conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism and lattice-oxygen-mediated represents a promising strategy for renew-
mechanism. The reaction pathways and related intermediates are discussed able energy conversion.
 Water electrolysis involves hydrogen
in detail, and several descriptors which greatly assist in catalyst screen and
 evolution reaction (HER) on cathode and
optimization are summarized. Some important parameters suggested as oxygen evolution reaction (OER) on anode.
measurement criteria for OER are also mentioned and discussed. Then, recent Theoretically, it requires a potential differ-
developments and breakthroughs in experimental achievements on transi- ence of 1.23 V between anode and cathode
tion metal-based OER electrocatalysts are reviewed to reveal the novel design for driving the overall reaction.[2] But actu-
principles. Finally, some perspectives and future directions are proposed for ally, a much higher voltage is needed in
 a practical water electrolyzer due to the
further catalytic performance enhancement and deeper understanding of
 overpotentials on both electrodes. HER
catalyst design. It is believed that iterative improvements based on the under- is a relatively simple two-electron trans-
standing of mechanisms and fundamental design principles are essential to port process involving electrochemical H+
realize the applications of efficient transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts adsorption and desorption of H2. In con-
for electrochemical energy storage and conversion technologies. trast, OER is an inherently more complex
 process and has sluggish oxygen evolu-
 tion kinetics, since it needs to transfer
 four electrons through multi-step reac-
1. Introduction tions with single-electron transfer at each step.[3] As a result,
 the accumulation of energy at each step makes OER kinetically
Since the industrial society, fossil fuels have become the hindered and a large overpotential is needed to overcome the
main energy sources for industry, agricultural production, kinetic energy barrier. On the other hand, OER is an impor-
and people’s lives. Although fossil fuels bring unprecedented tant half reaction involved in rechargeable metal–air batteries
industrial development and wealth, they cause unbearable which are also regarded as the emerging sustainable energy
environmental pressure to human beings and will gradually conversion technology. Nevertheless, the bottlenecks such as
run out in the future at the same time. Therefore, great efforts low lifetimes, inferior energy conversion efficiency, and limited
have been made to pursuit and utilize various types of clean stability of metal–air batteries mainly originate from the intrin-
 sically sluggish kinetics of OER.[4] Hence, developing effective
K. Zhang, Prof. R. Zou and stable OER electrocatalysts by improving oxygen electro-
Beijing Key Laboratory for Theory and Technology of Advanced kinetics can significantly contribute to improving energy-con-
Battery Materials version efficiency.
School of Materials Science and Engineering
Peking University
 To date, transition metal-based OER catalysts have been
Beijing 100871, China extensively studied by virtue of their excellent OER catalytic
E-mail: rzou@pku.edu.cn activities.[5] Noble-metal-based electrocatalysts have been con-
K. Zhang, Prof. R. Zou sidered as the most powerful electrocatalysts for OER in spite
Institute of Clean Energy of their high prices. Among them, Ru and Ir have been verified
Peking University to outperform Pt, Pd, and Rh.[6] Considering the high poten-
Beijing 100871, China
 tial applied during OER, noble-metal oxides such as IrO2 and
 The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article
 can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202100129.
 RuO2 are widely chosen as the state-of-the-art electrocatalysts.
 Nevertheless, RuO2 is highly unstable in both acidic and alka-
DOI: 10.1002/smll.202100129 line electrolytes under high anodic potential.[7] Although IrO2

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (1 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

can sustain at higher anodic potential and is more stable than to be pursued.[18] In order to enhance the OER performance
RuO2, it still suffers from a similar stability problem. Apart of catalyst, the number of active sites and the intrinsic activity
from noble-metal-based electrocatalysts, non-noble-metal- of active sites are the key factors to be promoted. Engineering
based electrocatalysts as an important part of transition metal the morphology of catalyst and reducing the particle size
electrocatalysts have been widely reported with remarkable to expose more catalytically active sites have been widely
catalytic performance and even outperform the noble-metal- adopted.[3]
based electrocatalysts.[8] Transition metal oxides such as perov- However, only a thorough understanding of the underlying
skite oxides and spinel oxides have been confirmed to show mechanism can help us find the origin of active sites of dif-
remarkable OER activity by virtue of low-cost, environmental- ferent materials and enable the potential of OER close to the
friendly, easily synthesized, and relatively stable in electro- thermodynamic limit. Several reviews with similar topics
lyte.[9] Furthermore, their flexible structures contain transition have been published in the recent years. Most of them focus
metals with various coordination environments and different on non-noble-metal-based OER electrocatalysts, and some
oxidation states endow them tunable OER behaviors. Besides, knowledge of reaction mechanism is introduced.[5,8] There
doping different transition metals within one metal oxide can are also some reviews focusing on the fundamental under-
produce synergistic effect and is an effective way to further pro- standing of OER mechanism and the origin of reaction over-
mote OER activity.[10] Transition metal hydroxides are a class potential.[2,3] However, more details about the development of
of lamellar crystal compounds, which can be even produced in transition metal-based OER electrocatalyst guided by these
situ during OER process. Their large specific surface area can theories are rarely summarized. Therefore, a systematic and
expose more active sites and the composition and electronic comprehensive review to link catalyst design and reaction
properties can be easily modulated, thus boosting the catalytic origin together is urgently needed. It is promising to design
performance.[11] Besides, a series of non-oxide OER electrocat- more efficient OER electrocatalysts under the guidance of
alysts such as transition metal chalcogenides, nitrides, phos- mechanisms.
phides, and even transition metals and their alloys have also In this review, we focus on the recent developments and
been widely applied. Transition metal chalcogenides, including breakthroughs in both experimental achievements and theoret-
transition metal sulfides, selenides, and tellurides, tend to ical mechanisms of electrocatalysts for OER (Figure 1). We first
be more electrochemically favorable compared to their oxide introduce the mechanisms for OER. We then provide a com-
counterparts due to their faster charge transfer kinetics.[12] prehensive overview of the reported activity trends and corre-
Compared to monometallic chalcogenides, multimetallic chal- sponding descriptors proposed for OER from both experiments
cogenides exhibit richer redox reactions and higher electrical and density functional theory (DFT) studies. Understanding the
conductivity.[13] Incorporation of different metal sites can play electronic states and coordination environment of catalyst active
an important role in optimizing the free energy of reaction sites help to get deeper insight into material design. Particular
intermediates adsorption and desorption, leading to higher cat- emphasis is put on recent progress in breaking the scaling
alytic activity. In regard to transition metal nitrides, although relationship of reaction intermediates to achieve superior per-
they suffer from slightly higher overpotential for OER, they formance. In addition, the basic concepts of electrocatalytic
have promising applications in OER by virtue of unique elec- kinetics that are commonly used to evaluate the performance
tronic structures, high electrical conductivity and good cor- of catalysts are addressed. Moreover, we select representative
rosion resistance.[14] In the periodic table, almost all of the studies on transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts to reveal
transition metal elements can react with phosphorus to form
transition metal phosphides.[15] Different constituent elements
and stoichiometric ratios can generate different structures and
physicochemical properties, thus leading to different OER per-
formance. As for most of the metal-rich metal phosphides,
they exhibit a better electrical conductivity due to the metallic
properties.[16] In addition, without forming layered structures,
the geometric structures of transition metal phosphides can
make more crystalline surfaces exposed, offering more active
sites for OER. Pure transition metals are easy to access and
are highly conductive. However, their catalytic performance is
less than satisfactory because the single metal surface fails to
optimize the binding energy of the intermediates during the
reaction.[17] Therefore, alloying different metals into a single
phase can intrinsically modify the electronic properties of
metal atoms and optimize the adsorption/desorption strength
of oxygen intermediates, giving rise to the enhanced OER
performance.
 Even though water electrolysis has been studied since the
19th century, unveiling the underlying reaction mechanism
for the anodic reaction OER and searching for the ideal cata- Figure 1. Schematic illustration of transition metal-based electrocatalysts
lysts in terms of activity and stability are still important issues for OER and the potential strategies for performance enhancement.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (2 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 2. Proposed a) AEM and b) LOM for OER. c) Gibbs free energy diagrams of reactive species and intermediates for OER versus the reaction
pathways. Blue and red lines refer to real and ideal reaction pathways, respectively. Reproduced with permission.[24] Copyright 2010, John Wiley & Sons.
Volcano activity plots for OER of d) perovskite oxides and e) rutile, anatase, Co3O4, MnxOy oxides using the difference in binding strength of *O and
*OH as activity descriptor. Reproduced with permission.[23] Copyright 2011, John Wiley & Sons.

the novel design principles. Finally, we discuss the remaining oxygen adsorption energy on catalyst surface.[21] The best cata-
challenges and questions and provide a prospective on some lyst displaying the minimum overpotential should bind inter-
potentially research directions for further catalytic performance mediates on its surface neither too strongly nor too weakly.
enhancement and deeper understanding of catalyst design. In AEM process, oxygen is originated mainly from absorbed
 water molecules, and the scaling relationships exist between
 the adsorption energies of oxygenated intermediate binding
2. Mechanisms for OER species.[22]
 AEM is generally considered to involve four cooperative
In general, the reaction mechanisms for OER are considered to proton–electron transfer reactions centered on active metal
go through two possible pathways: adsorbate evolution mecha- sites.[23] As shown in the equations below, water molecule is
nism (AEM) and lattice-oxygen-mediated mechanism (LOM) first adsorbed on the surface of metal site via one-electron oxi-
(Figure 2a,b).[19] AEM is regarded as the conventional OER dation process, forming an adsorbed *OH on the M site (*).
mechanism and its scaling relationship between different reac- *OH subsequently undergoes proton coupling and electron
tion intermediates are widely accepted.[20] The main parameter removal to form *O species. The following OO bond forma-
governing the reaction overpotential is the binding strength of tion step allows *O to react with another water molecule to
intermediates on catalyst surface, which follows the Sabatier form *OOH. Finally, *OOH is oxidized by one-electron transfer
principle.[2] Although the scaling relationship in AEM can help process to release O2 and recover the initial M active site.
to rapidly screen catalysts, its limits in OER activity still cannot
be overcome. The deep understanding of reaction mechanism H2O + * → *OH + H+ + e − ∆G1 (1)
and parameters that regulate catalyst activity by experimental
and theoretical observations foresees oxygen evolution can be *OH → *O + H+ + e − ∆G2 (2)
related with the participation of lattice oxygen, namely LOM.[3]
LOM bypasses the limitation of AEM and points out the active *O + H2O → *OOH + H+ + e − ∆G3 (3)
sites are not limited to metal centers.
 *OOH → * + O2 + H+ + e − ∆G4 (4)
2.1. Conventional Adsorbate Evolution Mechanism Each elementary step possesses specific free energy as a
and Its Scaling Relationship function of binding energies of the corresponding intermedi-
 ates. The step with the largest free energy difference (G = max
Traditionally, the theoretical OER overpotential of a catalyst has [∆G1, ∆G2, ∆G3, ∆G4]) is identified as the rate-determining
been confirmed to follow the Sabatier principle, namely, the step (RDS) and determines the theoretical overpotential of the

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (3 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

whole reaction (η = (G/e) − 1.23 V).[23] The thermochemically same time. Finally, the vacancy can be refilled by the migration
ideal catalyst should require all the four steps to have reaction of OH− from solution.[27] Because *OOH does not form in LOM
free energies of the same magnitude (Figure 2c). In this case, cycle, the limitation of the scaling relationship between *OH
all the reaction free energies are zero at the equilibrium poten- and *OOH can be broken. In addition, there is no need for a
tial (namely, 1.23 V).[24] But actually, catalysts cannot exhibit high coverage of reaction intermediates because the oxygen in
this behavior due to the adsorption energies of intermediates the catalyst lattice acts as the intermediate itself. The research
are linearly correlated. It has been confirmed that both *OH of Binninger et al. also suggests that the valence of metal cation
and *OOH have a single bond between O atom and the catalyst in catalyst is unchanged during LOM, and the driving force
surface, and they principally prefer the same type of binding for LOM is the oxidation of lattice oxygen but not the oxida-
site.[23] As a result, the binding energies of *OH and *OOH tion of cation to a higher valence state.[26] Although LOM can
are linearly correlated with a slope of approximately 1 and induce structural changes, it will not cause a great loss of the
an intercept of 3.2 eV, which only depend on the interaction catalyst. The catalyst is considered to be in a dynamic but stable
between the intermediates and the catalyst surface. Excitingly, state. The participation of lattice oxygen can be directly con-
the value of ∆G*OOH can be directly obtained from ∆G*OH, and firmed by various characterization methods such as oxygen
the adsorption energies of them are regardless of the binding isotope labeling experiment, on-line electrochemical mass
energy of *O, bringing a lower limit for OER overpotential. spectrometry (OLEMS), in situ Raman spectroscopy, and induc-
Since two proton–electron transfer steps have the perfect sepa- tively coupled plasma-mass spectroscopy. Shao-Horn and her
ration in energy of 2.46 (2 × 1.23) eV, a minimum overpoten- co-workers provide direct experimental evidence for the first
tial of 0.37 ([3.2 − 2.46]/2) eV can be achieved if the *O level of time in 2017 for the participation of lattice oxygen oxidation
a material can be placed optimally between that of *OH and in OER by OLEMS measurements of 18O-labelled perovskites
*OOH.[23] In view of the constant adsorption energy difference with different metal–oxygen covalency.[28] The detected 16O18O
between *OH and *OOH, the OER overpotential can be deter- and 18O18O signals confirm the lattice oxygen oxidation during
mined by *O adsorption energy, which means the second or OER for La0.5Sr0.5CoO3−δ, Pr0.5Ba0.5CoO3−δ, and SrCoO3−δ. How-
third elementary step is the RDS.[23] Thus, the OER overpoten- ever, there is no oxygen from LaCoO3 lattice in the molecular
tial can be described by the following equation: oxygen evolved. Besides, La0.5Sr0.5CoO3−δ, Pr0.5Ba0.5CoO3−δ, and
 SrCoO3−δ are found to have pH-dependent OER kinetics on the
η = max [ ∆G2 , ∆G3 ] / e − 1.23 V reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale, indicating the pres-
 = max [( ∆G*O − ∆G*OH ) , ( ∆G*OOH − ∆G*O )] / e − 1.23 V (5) ence of non-concerted proton–electron transfer. As a result,
 RDS is driven by acid/base equilibrium or becomes a proton
 = max [( ∆G*O − ∆G*OH ) ,3.2 eV − ( ∆G*O − ∆G*OH )] / e − 1.23 V
 transfer step. Increasing metal–oxygen covalency from LaCoO3
 to SrCoO3 promotes OER activity for the surface oxygen sites
 Therefore, the value of ∆G*O − ∆G*OH is a unique descriptor as evidenced by lower computed potential for all reaction steps.
for OER activity. Plotting η as a function of ∆G*O − ∆G*OH The origin of the oxidation of lattice oxygen is attributed to a
results in a universal volcano relationship independent of the shift of the Fermi level (EF) to O 2p band. A similar LOM on
catalyst (Figure 2d,e). amorphous IrOx were observed with 18O isotope labeling
 OLEMS by Cherevko et al.[29] The lattice oxygen in amorphous
 IrOx can directly participate in OER and the iridium atom with
2.2. Lattice-Oxygen-Mediated Mechanism weakened bonding is formed, which has a higher probability
 to dissolve. Therefore, significantly higher dissolution rate
The scaling relationship among the intermediates in AEM of iridium attributes to higher OER rate for amorphous IrOx
imposes a limit on OER, where the theoretical overpotential compared with crystalline IrO2. To give direct evaluation of
cannot go beyond 0.37 V. Several strategies have been adopted lifetime and insight into degradation mechanism, the stability
to break this scaling relationship by stabilizing *OOH without number (S-number) characterizing the activity versus stability
affecting the adsorption of *OH. However, this well-established is introduced. The S-number is defined as the ratio between the
mechanism has been challenged over couples of years. Thus, a amount of evolved oxygen and the amount of dissolved iridium,
mechanism which is totally different from the conventional one which is independent of loading, surface area or involved active
is proposed as the LOM. The presence of this new mechanism sites. The higher the number, the more stable the active center.
does not exclude the binding energy of intermediates is still a It is found that the S-number calculated for amorphous IrOx is
valid activity descriptor. It definitively points out the need of smaller than that of crystalline IrO2, suggesting the instability
considering dynamic catalyst surface where the active sites are of amorphous oxide lattice but higher activity toward OER.
not limited to metal centers. By using 18O labeling experiments in combination with
 The concept of LOM where the lattice oxygen participates in in situ Raman spectroscopy, Lee et al. probe the role of
the reaction was first proposed by Damjanovic and Jovanovic lattice oxygen and the active oxygen species in Fe-free and
in 1976.[25] Later in 2015, Binninger and his co-workers put Fe-containing Ni-based layered double hydroxides (LDHs).[30] In
forward more formal descriptions and coined the term lattice Fe-free Ni-based LDHs, bulk Ni sites are active and the lattice
oxygen evolution reaction.[26] In the typical LOM, the first two oxygen atom in NiOO− can exchange with OH− from the elec-
steps are the same as those in AEM by forming *O. Then, the trolyte to evolve oxygen. On the contrary, although the catalytic
formed *O couples with the lattice oxygen to release oxygen activity is dramatically enhanced upon Fe incorporation, lattice
molecule, and oxygen vacancy is formed in the lattice at the oxygen atoms no longer participate in the fast OER. A minor

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (4 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

amount Si doping can stabilize oxygen vacancy and improve the of novel catalysts. The desired catalytic behavior is correlated to
conductivity of perovskite oxide. Additionally, Si is inert toward the structural and electronic descriptors of catalysts. These rela-
OER which will not contribute to additional activity enhance- tionships are thought to be great powerful for catalysts design.
ment. Taking these factors into consideration, Shao and his
co-workers select Si as modifier for SrCoO3−δ (SCO) to create
different oxygen diffusion rate but similar surface properties in 2.3.1. Adsorption Free Energy
Si-incorporated SCO.[31] The pH-dependence of OER kinetics
confirms the participation of lattice oxygen. The occurrence of Reactivity descriptor derived from adsorption energy is easy
surface amorphization as a result of continuous cyclic voltam- to calculate and reflect the energy landscape of a reaction
metry (CV) cycling, which is more drastic for Si-SCO, suggests system. According to the volcano relationship between η and
a higher degree of participation of its lattice oxygen. Besides, ∆G*O − ∆G*OH, formation of *OOH is the RDS for the strong
the increase of oxygen ion diffusion rate in Si-SCO further oxygen-binding branch on the left side.[23] But the deprotona-
facilitates the refilling of the consumed surface lattice oxygen. tion of *OH becomes the RDS for the weak oxygen-binding
Although the eg filling number of Si-SCO is 0.7 which is far branch on the right side. Therefore, an excellent active catalyst
from the ideal value, the boosting OER activity observed on can be achieved by regulating the catalyst electronic structure
Si-SCO greatly attributes to the enhanced lattice oxygen partici- to optimize ∆G*O − ∆G*OH. Several strategies have been pro-
pation during the operation of LOM. posed including regulation by incorporating dopants, vacan-
 By far, in many researches, LOM can indeed deliver higher cies, strains, and interfaces.
OER activity than the conventional AEM in oxide catalysts. How- Incorporation of heteroatoms into catalyst lattice can modu-
ever, whether LOM is competitive with AEM in OER of these late the adsorption energies of intermediates, resulting in cata-
materials, and if so, under what conditions is still under dispute. lytic activity improvement. Co3O4, as a representative spinel
Based on a series of DFT calculations, Zagalskaya et al. demon- oxide, can host many other metallic cations in its lattice by
strate LOM leads to higher OER activity than AEM at active sites partial cobalt sites substitution. Interestingly, the OER perfor-
involving defects (dopants and vacancies) for RuO2- and IrO2- mance of Co3O4 can be significantly improved by modifying
based catalysts.[32] Ideal non-defective surfaces are identified with other transition metals.[33] Specifically, the substitution of
with higher OER activity for AEM. When substitutional transi- surface Co sites with Fe, Ni, and Cu cation is investigated.[34] A
tion metal cations are doped into RuO2, the OER overpotential volcano relationship is established for these Co3O4-based oxides
increases for AEM but decreases for LOM. In view of the fact based on the adsorption energies of intermediates. For pure
that metal-ion vacancies can form at the surface through the Co3O4, ∆G*O − ∆G*OH is at the right branch of the volcano plot,
dissolution process during OER, their influence on OER should indicating *O binding strength is too weak. Evidently, all substi-
not be neglected. The presence of metal vacancies has a marked tuted Co3O4 has a stronger oxygen binding energy, and 25% Cu-
effect on OER, which not only leads to decreased OER overpo- substituted Co3O4 is found to be close to the top of the volcano
tentials, but also can switch the OER mechanism from AEM to curve with excellent activity. In addition to doping with various
LOM. But IrO2 appears to be less active toward LOM as a result cations, non-metal doping is also regarded as an effective way
of its superior stability as compared with RuO2. In addition, a to optimize the electrocatalytic performance of Co3O4.[35] In
more pronounced involvement of LOM can be achieved by the view of the similar atomic size but different electron configura-
synergistic effect of the presence of both dopants and vacancies. tion and electronegativity between N and O, N-doped Co3O4 is
Shao et al. distinguish the extent to which the participation of reported for boosting OER.[36] Based on the Gibbs free energy
lattice oxygen by LOM can contribute to OER in Si-incorporated diagram, *O formation is the RDS for Co3O4. But the RDS con-
SCO.[31] The introduction of tetrahedral Si into octahedral Co verts to the formation of *OOH with a lower Gibbs free energy
site of SCO generates oxygen vacancies, which in turn results in change after N incorporation. Furthermore, the improvement
a decreased Co oxidation state. However, no obvious difference of electrical conductivity for N-Co3O4 is evidenced by the total
in Co L3-edge is found between Si-SCO and SCO, indicating an density of states (DOS). Pure Co3O4 has a wide bandgap with
insignificant variation in the surface Co valence, where OER semiconductor property, but the reduced bandgap of N-Co3O4
takes place. In consideration of the inertness of Si toward OER, improves the electrical conductivity with the enhanced hybridi-
AEM pathway on Si-SCO and SCO is determined by the valence zation between Co d-orbital and O p-orbital. The accelerating
of surface Co sites. Thus, the contribution of AEM to OER can reaction kinetics and optimized adsorption energy result
be considered unchanged after Si incorporation. Although AEM together in the superior performance.
and LOM occur in OER at the same time, the boosting electro- To further optimize the local surface and electronic environ-
catalytic activity through Si-doping is greatly attributed to the lat- ment, anion vacancies can be introduced to trigger abundant
tice oxygen participation in LOM. high-energy dangling bonds and unsaturated coordination
 sites.[33e] For transition metal oxides, oxygen vacancy is the
 most studied because it can enhance the activity of neighboring
2.3. Descriptors and the Related Activity Volcano Plots active site along with increasing DOS approaching EF. Com-
 bining with the improved electron transfer efficiency and the
Since the early 20th century, Sabatier principle has been dem- destabilization of metal–oxygen bonds, superior electrocatalytic
onstrated that the best catalysts should bind intermediates performance can be achieved.[37] Iron-cobalt oxide nanosheets
with optimal bond strength. The development of quantitative (Fe1Co1-ONS) with large specific surface area and abundant
structure-activity relationships is central to the rational design oxygen vacancies are prepared by a facile solution reduction

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (5 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

method.[38] Two electrons neighboring an oxygen vacancy that of two or more kinds of defects is essential to achieve optimal
previously occupied oxygen 2p orbital would become delocal- electronic states and ideal intermediate binding energy.[33e,46]
ized around the nearby Co3+ atom, enabling the low-coordinated Both Fe dopant and Co vacancy are incorporated into CoSe2
Co3+ more active for adsorption of H2O. These delocalized elec- nanobelt for OER.[47] The resulting CoSe2-DFe-VCo exhibits much
trons near the oxygen vacancy are easy to be excited into con- higher activity. Through both experiments and theoretical calcu-
duction band, further enhancing the conductivity and activity lations, the most active Co2 center in CoSe2-DFe-VCo is adjacent
of the catalyst. As a result, a strong Co3+/Co4+ redox peak can to VCo-nearest surface Fe site. Remarkably, Fe doping and Co
be observed in Fe1Co1-ONS, but not in the nanoparticles with vacancy work synergistically to decrease the partial DOS peak
less oxygen vacancies. Thus, the oxidation process from Co3+ to intensity near EF and therefore result in the dramatically weak-
Co4+ is facilitated by oxygen vacancies, which in turn promotes ened *OH binding strength with little impact on the binding
OER. After oxidation, the adsorption of *OH and further *OOH strength of *O. The rational combination of multiple defects
formation become easier on the electrophilic Co4+, resulting holds great promise to unlock the catalytic power of catalysts.
in the optimized energetics for OER. However, the durability
of oxygen vacancy is dissatisfactory especially under high-oxi-
dizing conditions. Alternatively, cation vacancy is very stable 2.3.2. d-Band Center Theory
and can also generate electron delocalization and boost the
activity.[39] Actually, the binding energy of an adsorbate to active metal
 Due to the strong interactions between structural and elec- site is determined by d-band center of metal site. In 2000, B.
tronic properties, strain has been considered as a powerful tool Hammer and J.K. Nørskov discussed the relationship between
to regulate functionality.[40] With strain in lattice, the binding adsorption activity and d-band center and developed d-band
energy of metal–oxygen bond can be easily modulated.[41] It is theory.[48] When oxygen intermediates adsorb on the catalytic
observed that in La1−xSrxMnO3 thin film, tensile strain favors metal sites, oxygen p-bands of adsorbate will interact with the
electron occupancy in dx2−y2, while the compressive strain favors s-, p-, and d-band of metal to form bonds. To a first approxi-
dz2 occupancy.[42] These electronic effects can lead to elongation mation, when forming the adsorbate–metal bond, the localized
or compression of metal–oxygen bond distance to the equatorial d-band governs the bond strength since the energies of s- and
and apical oxygen. Such changes in orbital overlap optimize the p-band do not change much.[2] Thus, chemisorption strength
binding energy of adsorbed intermediates. In LaNiO3, compres- is governed by the electronic structure of metal through the
sive strain as small as −1.2% can enhance OER activity.[43] The position of metal’s d-band center relative to EF.[2] More spe-
improved activity is attributed to strain-induced splitting of eg cifically, based on the experimental data and DFT calculations,
orbitals, and the eg-center (E e ) depending on this splitting can
 g they discover the chemisorption energies decrease toward the
be used to describe this activity trend. E e trends toward lower
 g right of the periodic table of elements in the 4d transition metal
energy with compressive strain and results in weaker metal- series.[48] The formation of bond between d-band and oxygen
oxygen (M–O) chemisorption and enhancement in OER activity. p-band gives rise to two states, namely the filled bonding states
 It is widely accepted that creation of strongly coupled inter- and partially occupied antibonding states. The metal site with a
face can benefit OER process due to the modulated electronic higher d-band center exhibits stronger interaction with adsorb-
structure of catalyst. Robust interface Ru centers between ates due to the decreased filling of antibonding states and vice
RuO2 and graphene are fabricated by controllable oxidation of versa.[49] For example, ultrasmall RuO2 nanoparticles exhibit
graphene encapsulated Ru nanoparticles.[44] DFT calculations superior OER performance over commercial RuO2 when Cu is
reveal that these interface Ru centers can break the scaling doped into the lattice.[50] Impressively, d-band center is far away
relationship between *OH and *OOH. Besides, graphene can from EF after Cu doping, suggesting the antibonding energy
act as an electron reservoir to donate electrons to RuO2, pre- states are lowered and the interaction between adsorbed oxygen
venting over-oxidation and corrosion of RuO2. Therefore, the intermediates and Ru is weakened. Consequently, a weaker
interface not only boosts the OER performance, but also plays RuO bond results in a reduction in the free energy of RDS.
an important role in stability. Tetrahedral NiS2/NiSe2 heteroc- So far, d-band theory has been extensively applied in tran-
ages with rich-phase boundaries show better OER performance sition metals and their alloys. It has acted as one of the most
than NiS2 and NiSe2.[45] Project electronic density of state excellent descriptors to describe many reactions besides OER.
(PDOS) calculations indicate that high transition metal–non- However, it fails to involve catalyst surface information and
metal covalency in NiSe2 leads to strong interaction between cannot be applied for non-metallic catalysts.
*O and Ni, hindering the conversion of *O to *OOH. However,
the low transition metal–nonmetal covalency in NiS2 results
in weak adsorption of *O on Ni, making the deprotonation of 2.3.3. eg Orbital Occupancy
*OH largely impeded. Remarkably, NiS2/NiSe2 with moderate
transition metal–nonmetal covalency has appropriate interac- Motivated by the success of d-band theory as the activity
tions between intermediates and Ni. As a result, the free energy descriptor for metal surface, a simple activity descriptor is
change of RDS significantly decreases. All above results indi- in urgent need to describe the correlation between adsorbate
cate the heterointerface can facilitate OER process. binding energy and catalytic activity for transition metal oxide,
 Because most previous studies only utilize one means to mod- especially for perovskite oxide. The hybridization o f d orbitals of
ulate the electronic structure of catalyst, optimal electronic states the transition metal in B site of perovskite oxide with 2p orbitals
are hard to be achieved. In view of this, the proper combination of oxygen results in orbital splitting.[51] Consequently, triplet

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (6 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 3. a) Spatial arrangement of oxygen ligands in metal-oxygen octahedral and tetrahedral coordination with respect to five d-orbitals, and the
corresponding energy levels of degenerate d-orbitals in octahedral and tetrahedral coordination. Reproduced with permission.[51b] Copyright 2017, John
Wiley & Sons. b) A volcano-shaped relation between OER activity and the occupancy of electrons of transition metal cation (B in ABO3) with eg sym-
metry. Reproduced with permission.[52] Copyright 2011, American Association for the Advancement of Science. c) Schematic illustration of Co 3d-O 2p
overlap for LaCoO3 and LaCo0.9Fe0.1O3. Reproduced with permission.[54] Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. d) iR-corrected potential plotted
against O p-band center relative to EF of a series of perovskite oxides. Reproduced with permission.[58] Copyright 2013, Springer Nature.

t2g orbitals containing dxy, dxz, and dyz orbitals and doublet eg particle size to about 80 nm, the eg filling of Co3+ is success-
orbitals containing d z2 and dx 2 − y 2 orbitals are obtained. In octa- fully tuned from unity to near the optimization configuration of
hedral site, eg orbital is readily to form a strong overlap with ≈1.2. Consequently, 80 nm LCO outperforms other sized sam-
2p orbital of oxygen. However, in tetrahedral site, neither eg or ples as well as the bulk. It is confirmed that this modification
t2g orbital directly points to oxygen (Figure 3a). Thus, the mis- originates from size-induced spin-state transition of Co3+ from
match of the angle between the orbitals causes weaker overlap low-spin to high-spin state.
with oxygen. Because the eg orbital of transition metal partici-
pates in forming σ-bond with surface adsorbate, its occupancy
can greatly influence the binding energies of intermediates and 2.3.4. Metal–Oxygen Covalency
then OER activity. Shao-Horn and her co-workers have corre-
lated the eg orbital filling of perovskite with the intrinsic OER As described by eg-filling theory, catalysts with the same eg orbital
activity.[52] They discover a volcano-shaped dependence on the occupancy (such as LaCoO3, LaMnO3, and LaNiO3) should have
occupancy of 3d electrons with eg symmetry for OER activity the same OER activities. However, it fails to explain their per-
(Figure 3b). Too few eg-filling hinders the formation of O22− ion formance differences which is due to the fact that eg descriptor
by deprotonation of OOH, and too much eg-filling limits the is established on the ionic model without considering electron-
rate of OO bond generation in OOH adsorbate. Hence, eg- sharing along metal–oxygen bond.[3] Thus, metal–oxygen cova-
filling close to unity results in the optimization of OER activity. lency is considered as an activity descriptor. Shao-Horn and her
Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3−δ (BSCF), with the electronic configura- co-workers point out that at a constant eg filling, greater covalency
tion of Co specified as t2g5eg≈1.2, has the highest OER activity between B-site and oxygen enhances OER activity. B-site with
among all oxides predicted by eg descriptor, and the activity is larger O 2p character can promote charge transfer between active
even at least an order of magnitude higher than that of IrO2. site and adsorbate in the RDS.[52] More examples are provided by
Similarly, the eg filling of perovskite cobaltite LaCoO3 (LCO) Xu and his co-workers. They first report that tailoring Co 3d-O
is engineered for improving OER activity.[53] By reducing the 2p covalency in LaCoO3 by Fe substitution can promote OER.[54]

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (7 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

LaCoO3 with 10 at% Fe substitution exhibits best OER activity. activity than that of BSCF can be achieved. Shao et al. discover
DFT calculations show the spin state of Co3+ will translate from that Ba4Sr4(Co0.8Fe0.2)4O15 (hex-BSCF) with unique hexagonal
low-spin state to high-spin state in this case, which further leads to structure consisting of honeycomb-like network demonstrates
insulator-to-half-metal transition. The optimized spin state of Co3+ ultrahigh OER activity.[59] Compared with the counterparts
in Fe-substituted LaCoO3 maximizes the overlap between Co 3d Sr8Co4O15, Ba8Co4O15, and Ba4Sr4Co4O15, hex-BSCF possesses a
and O 2p, realizing the enhanced covalency and the outstanding much higher O 2p-band center relative to EF. However, further
OER performance (Figure 3c). Later, they establish a strong cor- moving O 2p-band center closer to EF (for BSCF) will not lead
relation between CoO covalency and OER activity of substituted to the increase in OER activity but decrease the oxide stability.
ZnFexCo2−xO4 spinel oxide.[55] The enlarged CoO covalency pro- Consequently, having O p-band center close to EF can create
motes electron transfer and facilitates the injection/extraction of highly active oxide catalyst for OER, but it should not be too
electrons from oxygen, contributing to activity enhancement. close to EF with the sacrifice of stability.

2.3.5. p-Band Center of Bulk O 2.3.6. Coordinatively Unsaturated Metal Cation

The bulk O p-band center relative to EF is proposed as a It has been discovered that transition metal oxides with oxygen
descriptor for OER.[56] O p-band center is a bulk-phase property vacancies are beneficial to OER. NiCo2O4 surface with an
and is more easily obtained than other surface information. oxygen vacancy can decrease the hindrance for H2O adsorp-
It has a close correlation with the adsorption energy of reac- tion since the adsorption of H2O is more favorable at Co3+ low-
tion intermediates. The absolute energy of O p-band is largely coordination sites.[37b] Besides, the electrons neighboring the
determined by the Madelung potential and oxygen electron oxygen vacancy become delocalized, suggesting the surface with
affinity. By increasing the electronegativity or oxidation state of oxygen vacancy is more activated. The inert surface of perfect
B-site element, EF can be pushed closer to O p-band center.[57] rutile TiO2 adsorbs oxygen intermediates very weakly, whereas
A series of double perovskites (Ln0.5Ba0.5)CoO3−δ (Ln = Pr, Sm, creating coordinatively unsaturated Ti cation as a result of the
Gd, and Ho) is reported as OER catalysts with high activity and existence of surface oxygen vacancy can enhance oxygen inter-
stability.[58] The O p-band center relative to EF of (Ln0.5Ba0.5) mediate adsorption and effectively change OER activity.[60] Also,
CoO3−δ is found to increase linearly with the increase of Co the enhanced activity is delocalized instead of being confined
oxidation state from Ho to Pr. The Co-O hybridization will be at defective oxygen sites. Similarly, the phenomenon can be
enhanced in this case. Two branches are derived when plot- observed on Co3O4, MnO2, NiO, and Fe2O3. Thus, coordina-
ting iR-corrected potential versus O p-band center (Figure 3d). tively unsaturated metal cation (MCUS) can work as a structural
Moving O p-band center closer to EF will increase OER activity descriptor which can be altered to tune the adsorption of inter-
in the left branch. However, further lifting O p-band center mediates to achieve optimal OER activity. Tao et al. report that
will not bring any activity enhancement but decrease the sta- the surface reactivity of a given transition metal oxide (TMO)
bility. BSCF perovskite with an optimal eg displays a land- varies with the density of MCUS.[60] The electronic origin of
mark intrinsic OER activity. When the complex oxides with this descriptor is based on the coupling of O 2p to the highest
the same composition as BSCF but special crystal structure occupied d-states (Ed) of transition metal cation, which results
and multiple metal coordination environmentals, higher OER in bonding and antibonding states (Figure 4a). The bonding

Figure 4. a) Schematic bond formation of oxygen on different types of transition metal oxides through coupling O 2p with the highest occupied d-state
of transition metal cation. Reproduced with permission.[60] Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. b) Overpotential on different oxides as a func-
tion of the enthalpy of transition from lower to higher oxidation state. Reproduced with permission.[61] Copyright 1980, Elsevier.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (8 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

states are fulfilled and generally below EF. However, the higher density. More specifically, the overpotential to reach 10 mA cm−2
relative energy of Ed to EF is, the less filling of the antibonding is often selected for comparison, which conceptually originates
states and the stronger adsorption will be achieved. For n-type from artificial photosynthesis.[62] However, some electrocatalysts
TMOs, Ed is far below EF and the antibonding states are fulfilled such as Ni-, Co-, and Fe-based materials exhibit strong redox
with very weak adsorption. In this case, a surface with higher peaks in the potential range where oxygen evolution happens.
density of MCUS can increase Ed and lead to less filling of the Therefore, the overpotential at a higher specific current density
antibonding states. Hence, higher density of MCUS gives rise to such as 100 mA cm−2 can be considered. Alternatively, the current
higher surface reactivity. For p-type TMOs, Ed is close to EF with density for oxygen production excluding redox reaction can be
partially filled antibonding states. Thus, the surface reactivity of evaluated by recalculation from the linear fitting of Tafel plot.[63]
p-type TMOs is usually higher than that of n-type TMOs.

 2.4.2. Tafel Slope (b)
2.3.7. Oxidation Enthalpy
 The Tafel equation, obtained from the well-known Butler–
Early in 1980, Trasatti plotted OER overpotential against ∆Ht0 , Volmer equation, correlates overpotential and current density
which is the enthalpy of cation transition from a lower to a in a logarithmic manner:
higher oxidation state for metal oxides.[61] A definite volcano
curve appears with the asymmetric feature (Figure 4b). The η = a + b × log ( j ) (7)
easily oxidized oxides are poor OER catalysts because their
affinity for oxygen is too strong. The oxides that are difficult to 2.303RT log j0 2.303RT
be oxidized are also poor catalysts for OER due to their weak a= , b= (8)
 α nF α nF
affinity for oxygen.[2] As a result, RuO2 and IrO2 locate near the
top of the volcano plot and transition metal oxides exhibit the where b refers to the Tafel slope, j is the current density, j0
order of MnO2 > NiO > Co3O4 > Fe3O4. Moreover, the asym- denotes the exchange current density, R is the universal gas
metric volcano curve may help to explain the activities of binary constant, T represents the absolute temperature, n indicates the
oxides.[61] NiCo2O4 exhibits the best activity among Ni-Co spi- electron-transfer-number, F is the Faraday constant, and α is the
nels. This is reasonable because the two simple oxides are on charge transfer coefficient. In this case, a smaller Tafel slope
the different branches of the volcano curve. A lower amount of indicates the current density can increase faster with smaller
Ni added to Co is beneficial to reach the activity apex. overpotential change, implying good electrocatalytic kinetics.
 By far, the Tafel plot of an electrocatalytic process is generally
 obtained by three methods: voltammetry, chronoamperometry/
2.4. Measurement Criteria for OER chronopotentiometry, and electrochemical impedance spectros-
 copy (EIS).[64] Although voltammetry is the most widely used
To evaluate the OER electrocatalytic performance more accu- method, the polarization curve used for Tafel plot becomes
rately, some material-specific figures-of-merits are bench- inaccurate when the catalyst is highly capacitive, leading to a
marked below to facilitate the comparison of catalyst activities big error for determining the exchange current density. Besides,
across different laboratories. the obtained current cannot be the real steady-state even at a
 low scan rate.[64] To overcome this issue, static electrochemical
 techniques, namely chronoamperometry and chronopoten-
2.4.1. Overpotential (η) tiometry, are applied to achieve a steady state at the catalyst
 surface. Although the Tafel plot obtained from the steady-state
Overpotential (η) is a very important parameter to evaluate current can eliminate the capacitive current, the intrinsic and
OER activity of a target electrocatalyst. In the ideal case, the exact catalytic activity of a catalyst cannot be reflected because
applied potential is equal to the equilibrium potential of a reac- the uncompensated resistance cannot be easily excluded in this
tion. However, a higher potential in comparison to the equilib- case.[65] Hu and his co-workers use EIS to obtain a more accu-
rium one is needed in order to overcome the energy barriers in rate Tafel slope to avoid the aforementioned issue.[66] In this
electron transfer steps. The applied potential can be expressed method, with the help of Nyquist plots at various overpotentials
by the Nernst equation: at regular intervals, the plots of logRct (Rct is the charge transfer
 resistance) versus overpotential give the Tafel slope. The Tafel
 RT CO slope yielded here depends only on the intrinsic charge transfer
E = E 0′ + ln (6)
 nF CR ability of the catalyst without the contributions from catalyst
 resistance. Overall, the choice of specific method to obtain Tafel
where E is the applied potential, E0′ is the standard potential, T is slope should depend on the requirements and conditions.
the absolute temperature, R is the universal gas constant, F is Far-
aday constant, n is the number of transferred electrons, CO and
CR are the concentrations of the oxidized and reduced reagents. 2.4.3. Exchange Current Density (i0)
η is then identified as the difference between the applied poten-
tial E and the equilibrium potential. In practical, η is referred Exchange current density (i0) is defined as the current density
to a value which has to be applied to achieve a specified current when η equals to zero without net electrolysis. The magnitude

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (9 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

of i0 reflects the intrinsic electron transfer rate between elec- I R nD
 FE = (10)
trode and electrolyte. A high exchange current density (i0) is I DnR N CL
usually an indication of a good OER catalyst. Unfortunately, i0
cannot be directly obtained by electrochemical methods. i0 can where IR and ID represent the current at the ring and disk, nR
only be calculated from the Tafel equation mentioned above. and nD denote the number of transferred electrons at ring and
 disk, which both equal to 4 as for OER, NCL is the collection
 efficiency of the RRDE used.
2.4.4. Turnover Frequency

Turnover frequency (TOF) describes the intrinsic activity of the 2.4.6. Stability
catalyst, whose value equals to the number of the generated
products normalized by the number of active sites: Excellent stability is of great importance to meet the demands
 for practical applications. For transition metal compounds,
 jN A they usually exhibit high stability in alkaline electrolyte. How-
TOF = (9)
 nFΓ ever, most of them cannot perform well and show OER activity
 decays with the decrease of pH due to the degradation and dis-
where NA represents Avogadro constant, Γ is the surface or the solution in acidic solution, which is extremely expected from a
total concentration of active sites or the number of participated commercial point of view. Increasing efforts have been made to
atoms, j refers to the current density, n denotes the number improve the stability of catalyst, and the structure modulation
of transferred electrons, and F is the Faraday constant. Actu- of working electrode is proved to play an important role. Gener-
ally, it is difficult to obtain the accurate number of active sites. ally, catalysts directly grown on the working electrode (self-sup-
By far, three methods are widely used to determine the total porting electrode) are more stable than the drop-casted ones.
concentration of active sites. After activation of the catalyst Currently, several methods are used to evaluate the stability of
by CV cycling, integrating the redox peak area can be used to an OER catalyst. The accelerated degradation test (ADT) by CV
obtain the surface concentration.[67] Another method is based cycling for several hundreds or thousands of cycles at a high
on the assumption of 100% participation of all atoms in the scan rate is commonly used. Then, the linear sweep voltam-
loaded catalyst.[68] If the catalyst surface is flat and smooth, or metry (LSV) curve is measured to examine the overpotential
the catalyst has a sheet morphology, assuming the formation shift at a specific current density (usually at 10 mA cm−2). A
of monolayer can be used to evaluate TOF.[69] Nonetheless, if smaller increase in overpotential indicates a higher stability.
more than one element is in the catalyst or the catalyst is not Stability can be also examined for a few hours or more under
fully activated, the first method will produce error. Besides, constant polarization to a fixed potential (chronoamperom-
the number of active sites is often overestimated as a result etry, I–t curve at a constant potential) or a fixed current density
of including the catalytic inert or the buried sites based on the (chronopotentiometry, U–t curve at a constant current density).
second method. The third method can also be inaccurate for A catalyst is recognized to be stable for OER with either stable
the catalyst without sheet morphology, or when the catalyst is current density during chronoamperometry or a negligible
not completely flat or its morphology is easily broken under the increase in overpotential during chronopotentiometry. Addi-
harsh electrochemical conditions. Therefore, method should tionally, a series of techniques can be employed to detect the
be selected based on the specific catalyst and its properties. morphological, structural, and compositional stability such as
 ex-situ and in situ scannig electron microscopy (SEM), trans-
 mission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray photoelectron
2.4.5. Faradaic Efficiency spectroscopy (XPS), inductively coupled plasma, and X-ray dif-
 fraction analysis.
Faradaic efficiency (FE) is another quantitative parameter which
represents the utilization efficiency of electrons taking part in the
reaction. FE of OER is defined as the ratio of the quantity of actu- 2.4.7. Mass and Specific Activities
ally generated oxygen to the theoretical quantity. Generally, the
theoretical yield of oxygen is calculated through the chronoamper- The mass activity (MA) and specific activity (SA) are another two
ometric or chronopotentiometric analysis. The practically obtained quantitative active parameters reflecting the catalytic activity of
oxygen can be detected by the conventional water-gas displacement an OER catalyst. MA is defined as the current normalized by
method, gas chromatography, or fluorescence spectroscopy.[70] The the catalyst loading at a specific overpotential.[64] Although MA
evolved oxygen is excited from triplet to singlet state and relaxed has less experimental inaccuracy than others, it is not feasible
by fluorescence. The intensity of the fluorescence is a direct esti- to directly compare the experimental activity with the theoret-
mation of the quantity of oxygen evolved. Rotating ring-disk elec- ical value. Moreover, MA only cares about the loading regard-
trode (RRDE) measurement is another electrochemical method less of the type of catalyst, which makes a fair comparison of
to determine FE. OER catalyst is coated on the glassy carbon disk catalysts with various particle size, morphology, and topography
without disturbing the Pt ring. The same potential range as OER impossible. Besides, MA does not reflect the intrinsic catalytic
is applied to the disk, while a constant potential for oxygen reduc- property of catalyst. Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface
tion reaction is set on the ring at the same time. By using the area normalized SA is more suitable for porous catalysts.[64]
following equation, FE of an OER catalyst can be calculated: However, it often results in inappropriate estimations because

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (10 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

the BET surface area is determined by gas adsorption and des- calculations suggest the coordinatively unsaturated Ru atoms
orption, which is not necessarily electrochemically active. The (RuCUS) on crystallized planes are the active sites, and higher
current normalized by the electrochemical active surface area density results in better activity. (100) surface has the highest
(ECSA) will reflect the intrinsic catalytic property of catalyst, utilization of surface Ru atoms and the weakest O binding
unlike the one normalized by the geometrical area of substrate energy, thus being more active than other surfaces. Further
electrode.[71] Nonetheless, it is difficult to accurately determine investigations have been made by Shao-Horn’s group to com-
ECSA where large experimental inaccuracies occur from one pare the electronic structure of RuCUS across these different
method to another (such as CV and EIS analysis). Thus, com- crystallographic planes, as well as the energetics of adsorbates
paring SA obtained by this method with existing reports will be at potentials for OER to seek the physical origin of their activity
tedious. Having reviewed the merits and demerits of each of differences.[73] Although all these crystallographic planes have
these normalized parameters, it is better to provide all of them RuCUS sites in the same RuO5 coordination with four equato-
together for reliable comparison with early reports and across rial oxygen atoms and one apical site, the coordination of equa-
different laboratories. torial oxygen atoms and the bond angle between RuCUS sites
 and undercoordinated equatorial oxygen atoms are different
 (Figure 5a). Therefore, different binding energies of proton-
3. Transition Metal-Based OER Electrocatalysts stabilized-OO can be obtained. A lower binding energy of
 proton-stabilized-OO on RuCUS of (100) than (110) reduces the
Transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts can be classi- energetic barrier of RDS (deprotonation from OOH group),
fied into two groups: one is precious metal-based electrocata- giving rise to a higher OER activity on (100) (Figure 5b). None-
lysts and the other is earth-abundant transition metal-based theless, further reducing the binding energy on RuCUS of (101)
electrocatalysts. Nobel metals, their alloys, and oxides as leads to the RDS changing to water dissociation step to form
well as their composites are the state-of-the-art OER electro- proton-stabilized-OO species, resulting in an inferior OER
catalysts by virtue of their high OER activity in both alkaline activity for (101) relative to (100) and (110). Consequently, the
and acidic solution. However, large-scale commercialization site-dependent OER activity can be confirmed. Similarly, the
of them is greatly hindered by their high cost, low reserve, (100) surface of IrO2 is more active than the most thermody-
and relatively poor stability. Thus, tremendous efforts have namically stable (110) surface by virtue of high density of coor-
been devoted to exploring high-performance noble-metal-free dinately unsaturated metal sites.[74]
electrocatalysts. More excitingly, the OER activities of some In order to further enhance the OER activity of these pre-
noble-metal-free electrocatalysts are comparable to or even cious metal oxides, strain regulation has been adopted to tune
better than those of noble-metal-based electrocatalysts. In the surface chemistry and optimize the binding energy.[75] By
this section, we will highlight the recent advances of transi- constructing IrOx layer on IrCo nanodendrites, tunable IrO
tion metal-based OER electrocatalysts with a classification of bond length regulated by compressive strain effect for OER
transition metal oxides, hydroxides and oxyhydroxides, chal- is demonstrated.[76] The ≈3 atomic-layer IrOx on IrCo with
cogenides, nitrides, phosphides, and alloys. The synthetic 1.51% strain exhibits the most optimal OER activity compared
strategy, catalytic performance, and reaction mechanism are to the higher-strained (2.51%) and unstrained counterparts.
discussed in detail. DFT calculations reveal that the precisely tuned compressive
 strain optimizes the binding energy of intermediates and
 facilitates the RDS to form *OOH. The symmetry mismatch
3.1. Transition Metal Oxides between substrate and epitaxial thin film can also impose an
 orthorhombic distortion of the tetragonal structure of IrO2,
Transition metal oxides are the most popular electrocatalysts which produces the distorted [IrO6] geometry and tensile
for OER. In this part, we will briefly introduce the electro- strain in the direction perpendicular to the substrate.[77] A sur-
catalytic properties, influence factors, and design strategies of face relaxation by the formation of oxygen vacancy appears at
recently reported transition metal oxides including precious the same time, which becomes an active site and contributes
metal oxides, perovskite oxides, spinel oxides, and other oxides. to the increase in the activity of strained IrO2 film. Doping
 heteroatom is another effective method to regulate the elec-
 tronic structure of active sites.[78] An efficiently tuned d-orbital
3.1.1. Precious Metal Oxides occupation of IrO2 is realized by Cu doping.[79] The enhanced
 performance of Cu-doped IrO2 is due to the increase of Jahn-
RuO2 and IrO2 are known to be the most active electrocata- Teller effect in CuO6 and oxygen defects in the lattice induced
lysts for OER. These two oxides adopt rutile structure, where by IrO6 distortions. As a result, the lift degeneracy of t2g and eg
Ru and Ir locate in the center of octahedral site with oxygen orbitals will be enhanced, and dz2 orbital will be partially occu-
in the corner. Each octahedron connects to each other through pied (Figure 5c). This phenomenon is benign for reducing
sharing the corners. Many researchers have confirmed RuO2 the energy barrier of RDS and thus yielding a lower overpo-
and IrO2 have orientation-dependent performance, where dif- tential. In addition, codoping as an approach can further pro-
ferent crystallographic planes have different OER activity. mote OER activity.[50] Ni and Co as dopants not only reduce
Shao-Horn and her co-workers have examined the OER the use of precious metal, but also make the electrons near
kinetics of RuO2 on (110), (100), (101), and (111) orientations EF more delocalized.[80] Codoping results in a more broad-
and found (100) is the most active one in 0.1 m KOH.[72] DFT ened Ir-5d band and improves the orbital overlap with O-2p.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (11 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 5. a) The coordination of RuCUS sites of different facets of RuO2. b) DFT-calculated free energy diagrams for OER at 1.5 VDFT-RHE on different
facets of RuO2. Reproduced with permission.[73] Copyright 2020, Springer Nature. c) Lattice diagram of the ab plane of IrO2 and Cu-doped IrO2, and
schematic illustration of Ir-5d orbital degeneracy in IrO2 and the lift degeneracy and electron distribution in Cu-doped IrO2. Reproduced with permis-
sion.[79] Copyright 2015, Royal Society of Chemistry.

Consequently, the interaction with intermediates is facilitated 3.1.2. Perovskite Oxides
and the overall OER reaction rate is accelerated.
 Although the electrocatalytic properties of RuO2 and IrO2 Perovskite-related materials were first studied in 1839.[84]
are excellent, both materials suffer from substantial corrosion Perovskite oxides have emerged as an important family of
during O2 evolution at high anodic potential. As early as in mixed-metal oxides by virtue of their incomparable structural
1983, Kötz et al. applied XPS to gain information on the sur- flexibility, exceptional thermal stability, redox behavior, and
face composition of RuO2 under OER treatment.[7] RuO2 will ionic conductivity. Actually, about 90% of the metallic elements
first transform into RuO2(OH)2 and then deprotonate into in periodic table can form perovskite structure, which offers
RuO4 via two-electron steps. The unstable RuO4 will further great flexibility to tailor and tune their physical and chemical
dissolve into solution leading to the deterioration of RuO2, or properties by rational substitution of metal site with various
dissociate into O2 and RuO2(OH)2. A similar phenomenon for elements. The general formula of perovskite oxide is ABO3,
IrO2 has also been clarified by XPS.[81] IrO2 first transforms into which consists of alkaline, alkaline-earth or rare-earth cation at
Ir(OH)3 and a subsequent deprotonation step leads to the for- A site and transition metal cation at B site. The ideal perovskite
mation of IrO(OH)2. After two additional deprotonation steps, oxide belongs to cubic space group Pm-3m and exhibits 12-fold
IrO3 is formed. Then, IrO3 reacts with one water molecule oxygen coordination at A site and sixfold oxygen coordination
leading to oxygen evolution, or alternatively IrO3 corrodes into at B site. Insertion of multiple A and/or B cations with different
the electrolyte in the form of IrO42−. To improve the stability sizes and valences will cause distortions and oxygen nonstoi-
of these precious metal oxides, support materials can offer chiometry in the structure. Three kinds of distortions appear
electronic catalyst-support interactions which are beneficial to when some symmetry operations in the space group are sup-
catalyst durability. IrOx supported on antimony-doped tin oxide pressed. The first one is the distortion of octahedron where
(IrOx/ATO) is fabricated and the important role of support in the electronic instability of B site causes Jahn-Teller distortion
stabilizing catalyst particles is evidenced.[82] ATO support miti- of BO6 octahedron. The second one is the displacement of
gates Irn+ dissolution due to the strong interaction between cations within octahedron which is also due to the electronic
catalyst and support. Thus the electrochemical stability and instability of metal ion. The last one is the rotation or tilting
charge-transfer kinetics are enhanced at the same time. Similar of octahedron when A site is too small compared with B and
result is also confirmed in IrO2−TiO2 system which possesses O site.[85] Oxygen nonstoichiometry includes oxygen deficiency
a homogenous distribution of IrO2 nanoparticles with strong and excess which is due to the less or greater overall charges
catalyst-support interactions.[83] Graphene encapsulated RuO2 of A and B than the charges of oxygen. Thus, a more general
with robust interface Ru centers has higher stability than com- formula A1−xA′xB1−yB′yO3±δ should be adopted. Particularly,
mercial RuO2.[44] The electron-rich interface acts as electron oxygen vacancies in the structure can facilitate oxygen transfer
reservoir to donate electrons to RuO2 which prevents the over- and increase oxygen mobility. The rotation of octahedron with
oxidation and corrosion of RuO2. reduction in symmetry can further induce the formation of

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (12 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

superstructure. When either A or B, or both of them are occu- attest to more stable perovskite structure upon doping. Sub-
pied by two or more different cations, these cations adopt a stitution of Sr2+ for La3+ in LaNiO3 is an another example of
long-range order in each subnet and form “double perovskite”. A-site modification to enhance the OER activity.[94] Increasing
The formula of double perovskite can be described as A′A″B2O6, Sr proportion in La1−xSrxNiO3 makes O 2p band shift upward
A2B′B″O6, or A′A″B′B″O6. in energy and move close to EF. The charge transfer energy
 As we have discussed in the previous section, OER can pro- decreases and Ni 3d-O 2p hybridization will be strengthened at
ceed by AEM or LOM mechanism. Through a series of DFT the same time. When half of the La atoms in A site are sub-
calculations, Kolpak et al. propose that the OER activity volcano stituted by Sr, the overpotential of La0.5Sr0.5NiO3 to achieve 50
for AEM is universal for all perovskites, while that for LOM µA cm−2 is 0.29 V, which is comparable to that of the state-
depends on the nature of A-site cation.[86] A set of rare-earth of-the-art BSCF perovskite catalyst. By tuning the calcination
nickelate perovskite oxides (RNiO3, R = La, LaxNd1−x, Nd, and temperature during the fabrication of perovskite, the number
NdxSm1−x) are investigated with controlled A-site isovalent sub- of active sites and the intrinsic activity of catalyst can be modu-
stitution to correlate their structure properties with OER activi- lated at the same time. The enhancement of intrinsic activity
ties.[87] The OER activity initially increases upon substituting of SrCo0.5Fe0.5O3−δ prepared at 800 °C originates from the
La with Nd, and remains comparable to that of NdNiO3 when favorable electronic structure, leading to lattice oxygen oxida-
further decreasing the A-site radius by mixing Nd and Sm. A tion triggered by high covalency of Co4+/Fe4+O bonds.[95]
decrease in A-site radius lowers the formation energy of oxygen Besides, the increased surface area exposes more active sites,
vacancy, resulting in a partial reduction of Ni3+ to Ni2+. This enhancing the mass activity. As another example of B site mod-
increases the average occupancy of eg antibonding orbital to ification, the crucial role of Ir content on the OER activity of
more than one, which promotes OER activity. The OER mecha- SrTixIr1−xO3 is demonstrated.[96] A good volcano plot between
nisms of LaMnO3 (LMO), LaCoO3 (LCO), and La0.5Sr0.5CoO3 the theoretical overpotential of Ti site and ∆G*O − ∆G*OH is
(LSCO) are investigated by Chen’s group, and they observe the presented (Figure 6a). A low Ir content (<25%) and a high Ir
OER activity follows the order of LSCO > LCO > LMO.[88] Based content (>75%) lead to weak and strong adsorption of oxygen
on the free-energy diagrams, the superior OER activity of LSCO intermediates, which are not favorable for OER. Only the
is realized by appropriately selecting B site atom and further optimal Ir content around the peak of the volcano curve shows
modifying A site atom to tune the oxygen adsorption energy high catalytic peroformance. Besides, the eg filling of Ti site is
based on the number of outer electrons and upshift of the posi- reduced when increasing Ir content, and the adsorption abili-
tion of dz2 orbital toward EF of B site atom. ties of oxygen intermediates on Ti site increase as eg decreases
 Recently, highly covalent Co 3d-O 2p bonding in SrCoO2.7 (Figure 6b). Additionally, ∆G*O changes faster than ∆G*OH and
has been confirmed to improve OER activity through LOM ∆G*OOH with respect to eg, making it possible to continuously
pathway.[89] Taking into consideration that SrNiO3 is predicted tailor ∆G*O − ∆G*OH and thereby OER activity. A quadruple
to be more covalent and more prone to have oxygen deficiency, perovskite oxide CaCu3Ru4O12 exhibits an ultrasmall overpo-
it can be more catalytically active than SrCoO3.[90] Based on tential of 117 mV at 10 mA cm−2, which is much lower than
the structural advantages of SrNiO3, a Ruddlesden-Popper that of RuO2.[97] Due to the lower Ru 4d band center, the weaker
La0.5Sr1.5Ni1−xFexO4±δ is fabricated to further improve the OER RuO coupling in CaCu3Ru4O12 leads to larger ∆G*O − ∆G*OH
performance.[91] Substitution of La for Sr further oxidizes Ni and smaller ∆G*OOH − ∆G*O, which means a smaller overpoten-
via charge compensation, enhancing NiO covalency and elec- tial is achieved. The weaker RuO binding strength also lowers
trical conductivity. Substitution of Fe for Ni tunes the overlap the Ru dissolution rate owing to the less participation of lattice
between Ni and Fe 3d bands and O 2p band. The increased oxygen redox, which improves its stability.
covalency and hybridization of metal 3d states and O 2p band Incorporation of oxygen vacancy may expose more active
in La0.5Sr1.5Ni1−xFexO4±δ are effective for improving OER activity sites and regulate the electronic structures of electrocata-
and supporting OER through LOM mechanism. This selective lyst, and the localized electrons neighboring oxygen vacancy
A- and B-site substitution promotes the cross-gap hybridization can become delocalized to facilitate electron transport. Thus,
and reveals the important role of perovskite structural regula- introducing oxygen vacancies into perovskite oxides is an
tion in OER activity. High OER activity of SrRuO3 has been effective way to modify their OER performance. The OER
reported but its inferior stability hinders its application due to activity of Sr2VFeAsO3−δ is dramatically enhanced with lat-
the formation of high-valance Ru at high voltage, which leads tice oxygen vacancies for δ > 0.5.[98] DFT calculations clarify
to the decomposition and collapse of the structure.[92] Besides, that oxygen vacancies are initially dominated in one crystal-
DFT calculations reveal that SrRuO3 binds oxygen intermedi- lographic site. With increasing the concentration of vacancies
ates too strongly. Through Na doping, both activity and dura- for δ > 0.5, oxygen vacancies at two types of crystallographic
bility of SrRuO3 can be both enhanced.[93] With moderate Na sites are fully accessible. As a result, the distances between
doping, Sr0.875Na0.125RuO3 locates at the top of the volcano. Na OH− coupled oxygen-vacant sites become sufficiently short,
incorporation prevents the Jahn-Teller effect within the lattice, enabling direct OO bond formation (Figure 6c). Hence, the
which results in more regular octahedra. The surface oxygen OER activity of oxygen deficient catalyst is controllable by the
p-band center and Ru d-band center are positively displaced variety of oxygen vacancies. Müller et al. report that A-site sub-
upon Na doping, which weakens the adsorption energies of stitution in Y1.8M0.2Ru2O7−δ can control the concentration of
intermediates. Besides, the surface energy is lower compared surface oxygen vacancies, which in turn correlates with a supe-
with that of SrRuO3. The lower dissolution rates of Sr and Ru rior OER activity.[99] Changing the substitution from Fe to Y,
are also achieved in the presence of Na. Such observations Ni, Co, and to Cu on A-site upshifts O 2p band center closer

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (13 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 6. a) Volcano plot of OER activity, and b) adsorption free energy of oxygen intermediates plotted as a function of eg filling of Ti site on the (001)
surface of SrTixIr1−xO3. Reproduced with permission.[96] Copyright 2020, Royal Society of Chemistry. c) Schematic illustration of OO bond formation
between the oxygen-vacant sites in Sr2VFeAsO3−δ. For δ < 0.5, dotted lines mean the distance is too long to form OO bond. For δ > 0.5, the distance
between oxygen-vacant sites is short enough to form OO bond directly. The corresponding OER mechanisms for δ < 0.5 and δ > 0.5 are shown at
the bottom. Reproduced with permission.[98] Copyright 2018, Royal Society of Chemistry.

to EF, leading to an increase in the density of oxygen vacancy. pressure. At low oxygen pressure (0.2–10 Pa), proper concen-
Besides, the density of oxygen vacancy scales with the enthal- tration of oxygen vacancy provides a moderate binding energy
pies of formation (∆fHO) of binary oxides MOx (Fe2O3, CoO, with *OH and the increased ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+ provides a more
NiO, and CuO). A less stable oxide with a less negative ∆fH° favorable eg filling. While at high oxygen pressure (10–60 Pa),
correlates with an increased density of oxygen vacancy. In view insufficient concentration of oxygen vacancy will enhance the
of the above features, Y1.8Cu0.2Ru2O7−δ exhibits the best OER hybridizatition between Ni 3d and O 2p band and consequently
activity among the entire series. The important role of oxygen deteriorate the OER activity although the ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+
vacancy in NdNiO3 prepared at different oxygen pressure is sys- still increases. Even though oxygen vacancy can promote the
tematically studied.[100] The OER activity of fabricated NdNiO3 OER activity of perovskite oxides, do more oxygen vacancies
exhibits a volcano-shaped dependence as a function of oxygen mean better OER performance? Liu and his co-workers find

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (14 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

in PrBa0.5Sr0.5Co1.5Fe0.5O5+δ, excessive oxygen vacancies can SrCoO3−δ is reduced by ≈100 mV toward the onset potential of
promote OH− affiliation and lower the *O formation energy, IrO2. Furthermore, this increase in activity is not at the sacrifice
which facilitates OER kinetics.[101] However, oxygen vacancies of decrease in structural or chemical stability as found in other
also increase the energy band gap and lower O 2p band center oxides reliant on cation rather than anion substitution.[58]
at the same time, which hinders OER kinetics. Similarly, Shi
et al. discover that in PrBaCo2O6−δ, largely increasing oxygen
vacancy tends to form an ordered structure in PrO1−δ layer with 3.1.3. Spinel Oxides
an alternative arrangement of Co3+O5 and Co3+O6.[102] This trig-
gers the spin-state transition of Co3+ from high-spin to low-spin The large spinel oxide family is widely studied due to their
state and a large reduction in eg filling. An obvious decrease low cost and promising OER activity. The crystal structure of
in electrical conductivity accompanied by a weakened CoO spinel oxide consists of metallic ions occupying the center of
bond covalency is also observed, which greatly hinders the OER tetrahedral and octahedral sites and oxygen anions arranging
activity. The above results reveal the complex role of oxygen at the polyhedral vertexes. In a unit cell, two thirds of the sites
vacancy in OER, and only carefully tuning these competitive are four oxygen-coordinated tetrahedra and one third are six
effects can result in the enhanced OER activity. oxygen-coordinated octahedra. Typical spinel oxides can be
 Insertion of multiple A and/or B cations can lead to struc- described by the formula AB2O4, where A is a divalent cation
tural distortion, which is beneficial to OER to some extent. and B is a trivalent cation. Two crystallographic sites including
Simple electrochemical Fe exchange in the surface region octahedral (Oh) and tetrahedral (Td) sites in the lattice result in
with several-unit-cell thickness within LnNiO3 (Ln = La, Pr, different types of spinel structures. One is normal spinel with
Nd) film boosts OER activity by different orders of magni- a configuration of (A2+Td)(B3+Oh)2O4 (divalent cation A2+ in tetra-
tude.[103] Strong distortion of oxygen octahedron is induced hedral site), one is inverse spinel with a configuration of (A2+Oh)
by Fe exchange and thus a high density of states of O 2p and (B3+Td)(B3+Oh)O4 (divalent cation A2+ in octahedral site), and the
transition-metal 3d orbitals near EF is achieved. In addition, the other is complex spinel which possesses the characteristics of
distortion of oxygen octahedron is very effective for improving both normal and inverse spinel. The degree of inversion is sen-
charge transfer between transition metals and oxygen, conse- sitive to the nature of cations and synthesis conditions.
quently boosting the OER activity. A double perovskite oxide As a commonly available spinel oxide, Co3O4 has recently
NdBaMn2O5.5 exhibits high OER activity with a much higher emerged as a suitable electrocatalyst for OER. There are two
structural distortion.[104] Through DFT calculations, the shortest different types of Co ions with different oxidation states in
O-O distance between two neighboring oxygen atoms con- cubic Co3O4 lattice: one Co2+ ion in tetrahedral site and two
nected to the nearest neighboring Mn ion is 2.94 Å, which is Co3+ ions in octahedral site (Figure 7a). However, the contribu-
short enough for oxygen atoms to interact with each other and tions of these two types of cobalt ions to OER activity are totally
directly forming O2. Moreover, a large number of square pyra- different. This is demonstrated by the activity comparison
mids are present in NdBaMn2O5.5. This open structure can pro- among CoAl2O4, ZnCo2O4, and Co3O4.[51b,107] The catalytically
vide lots of active sites for the adsorption of reactants. inert Zn2+ with d10 electronic structure tends to occupy tetrahe-
 Strain has been proven as a useful means to improve OER dral site. In this way, all Co ions are located in octahedral site
activity, and it can also impact charge-transport properties due in ZnCo2O4. While for Co3O4, Co ions occupy both tetrahedral
to the changes in orbital overlap. Shao-Horn et al. first find and octahedral site. All Co sites are tetrahedrally coordinated
the use of epitaxial strain via lattice mismatch can tune the in CoAl2O4. Consequently, OER activity follows the order of
activity toward OER on LaCoO3.[41] The activity of compres- CoAl2O4 < ZnCo2O4 < Co3O4, confirming the critical role of
sively strained LaCoO3 grown on LaAlO3 is the lowest, while octahedral geometry in OER (Figure 7b). This activity difference
moderately tensile strained LaCoO3 grown on (LaAlO3)0.3(Sr2 can be explained by the different interaction strength between
AlTaO6)0.7 is the most active. The reduced activity observed in Co and O. In tetrahedron with high-spin Co2+, three t2 orbitals
compressively strained LaCoO3 is also related to the increased have either no spatial overlap or weak π interaction with O px/py
charge transfer resistance to some extent. Therefore, the bal- orbital. On the contrary, in octahedron with low-spin Co3+,
ance between tensile strain and electrical conductivity must strong interactions are formed by eg orbitals pointing directly
be achieved to maximize the catalytic activity. The influences toward O (Figure 7c). Besides, PDOS illustrates octahedral Co
of strain and oxygen vacancy are always coupled together. possesses stronger hybridization with O. By further tuning
La0.7Sr0.3CoO3−δ (LSC) thin film grown on LaAlO3 (LAO) and the electronic state and surface area, the electrocatalytic per-
SrTiO3 (STO) are investigated by Liu et al.[105] LSC/STO under formance of Co3O4 can be further enhanced. Furthermore,
tension has larger oxygen deficiency than LSC/LAO under MgCo2O4, CoCr2O4, Co2TiO4, and Co3O4 have been explored
compression, which attributes to smaller oxygen vacancy for- to screen out the best geometrical configuration of Co ion to
mation energy. The strain-induced excessive oxygen vacancies facilitate OER, which includes only Co3+ in Oh site, Co2+ in
in LSC/STO increase the eg filling and enlarge the energy gap Td site, Co2+ in Oh site, and Co3+ in Oh site with Co2+ in Td
between O 2p and Co 3d band, thus resulting in lower OER site, respectively.[108] Co3O4 exhibits the best OER activity and
activity. Another interesting example of manipulation of epi- CoCr2O4 performs worst among these cobalt-based oxides. The
taxial strain with the variation of oxygen defect in SrCoO3−δ OER activity of MgCo2O4 is better than that of Co2TiO4. Thus,
is reported by Petrie et al.[106] The additional oxygen vacancies it is demonstrated that the optimal configuration for OER is in
can be created through tensile strain. Specifically, as the ten- the sequence of Co3+(Oh) > Co2+(Oh) > Co2+(Td), and the coex-
sile strain is increased from 0 to 4.2%, the onset potential of istence of Co3+(Oh) and Co2+(Td) leads to the best activity. DFT

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (15 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 7. a) Crystal structure of Co3O4. b) OER CV curves of CoAl2O4, ZnCo2O4, and Co3O4 in 1 m KOH. c) The orbital splitting of Co 3d in tetrahedral and
octahedral geometry, and the corresponding illustration of octahedral and tetrahedral Co 3d-O 2p orbital interactions. Reproduced with permission.[107]
Copyright 2019, John Wiley & Sons. d) Crystal structure of perfect Co3O4 and Co3−xO4−δ with CoO4 vacancies. e) The energy splitting of 3d orbitals and
electronic configuration of Co in Co3O4 and Co3−xO4−δ. Reproduced with permission.[110] Copyright 2020, Royal Society of Chemistry.

calculations reveal that Co3+(Oh) is the most optimal configura- 1.54 V to reach 10 mA cm−2.[109] By virtue of larger atomic size
tion to form *OOH. Although Co2+(Oh) is more favorable for and higher electron-donating ability of P compared with those
the conversion of *O to *OOH than Co2+(Td), it is more difficult of N, P-Co3O4 shows a better OER performance with a much
to desorb O2. The coexistence of Co3+(Oh) and Co2+(Td) further smaller reaction free energy than pristine Co3O4.[35a] Introduc-
lowers the energy barrier to adsorb *O and promotes *OOH tion of oxygen defects into single-crystalline ultrathin Co3O4
formation. nanosheets with O-terminated (111) facets greatly enhances the
 The electronic state of Co3O4 can be tuned by heteroatom- OER activity with a low overpotential of 220 mV and a small
doping, lattice plane control, and introduction of vacancy. The Tafel slope of 49.1 mV dec−1.[37c] The promoted performance is
energy level and active surface of Co3O4 are successfully mod- due to larger ECSA, more favorable kinetics, and better con-
ulated by Al-incorporation.[33b] Large amount of electrophilic ductivity. Besides, under the presence of oxygen vacancies,
O22−/O− will generate on the surface of Al incorporated Co3O4, second-layered Co active sites will be exposed which results in
which is highly active toward OER. In addition, the adsorp- a lower activation energy. By reducing the crystallinity in Co3O4,
tion of intermediates is optimized and the energy barrier is highly disordered Co3−xO4−δ containing numerous structural
greatly decreased. Pentavalent V-doped Co3O4 displays a much defects is prepared.[110] Because CoO4 moieties connect with
better OER performance in both activity and stability than CoO6 sites by sharing the common O atoms at their corners,
pristine Co3O4 due to the lattice distortions and defects with CoO4 vacancies result in O vacancies adjacent to octahedral
more exposed active sites.[33c] The corresponding energy bar- CoO6 sites which finally generate potentially active CoO5 sites
rier decreases from 1.73 to 1.57 eV after high-valent V doping (Figure 7d). CoO5 sites are considered as the active sites due
and a stronger *OH adsorption occurs on the surface. Besides to the optimal eg filling (t2g5eg1) and the unsaturated coordina-
metal-doping, non-metal doping is also regarded as an effec- tion (Figure 7e). And the bandgap of Co3−xO4−δ is much narrow
tive approach. N-doped nanoporous Co3O4 with oxygen vacan- than Co3O4 which means the enhanced conductivity. The facet
cies shows advanced OER performance with a low potential of dependence of OER activity and stability of Co3O4 are discussed

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (16 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

by Koel et al.[111] They demonstrate the OER activity increases a stabilized Co(3−δ)+ (t2g6−δegδ, δ close to 1). Both of them have
with a higher proportion of (111) surface exposure due to the eg occupancy close to 1 and are the OER active centers. The
higher Co ion density and higher reactivity toward water dis- above results illustrate the rational design of hybrid electrocata-
sociation. On the contrary, the lower surface energy of (100) lyst via interfacial structure engineering is an effective way to
surface compared to that of (111) surface results in higher sta- enhance OER activity. ZnCo2O4 is another representative spinel
bility. Beyond these conventional regulation methods, some oxide. When ZnCo2O4 is anchored on flexible carbon textiles,
extraordinary means can be used to elaborately modulate the this 3D composite shows excellent OER performance with a
structure of Co3O4. For example, the surface active electron small overpotential of 196.4 mV at 10 mV cm−2.[123] Different
density of Co3O4 can be effectively regulated by an argon ion from Co3O4, a new electronic state appears in the bandgap of
radiation method.[112] The surface active electron density of ZnCo2O4, demonstrating the importance of Zn2+ exchanging
Co3O4 is upshifted, enhancing the adsorption capability to oxo in promoting electrical conductivity. With more electronegative
group. As a result, the optimized catalyst only needs a small Ni cation partially substituting Co3+ in ZnCo2O4, a redistribu-
overpotential of 260 mV to reach 10 mA cm−2. Co3O4 nanosheet tion of electronic density between metal cations and oxygen will
with a graphene-like holey structure is synthesized, which pos- be initiated and the OER performance will be altered. A series
sesses a large fraction of low-coordinated surface atoms and of ZnCo2−xNixO4 (x = 0–2) is synthesized.[124] With increasing
highly accessible surface areas.[113] DFT calculations reveal the Ni substitution into ZnCo2O4, the structure becomes more
loss of neighboring layers generates lattice distortion, which unstable. Moreover, when x = 0 and 0.2, O p-band center is
leads to decreased energy barriers for oxygen intermediates. By lower than d-band center of cation in octahedron (MOh), sug-
inducing lattice expansion of Co3O4, the electronic spin state of gesting the lattice oxygen is redox inactive and oxygen will bind
Co3+ in Co3O4 can be transformed from t2g6 to high-spin state strongly to cations. When x increases to 0.4, O p-band center
of t2g4eg2.[114] It is found that high-spin Co3+ promotes OER becomes higher than that of MOh, and lattice oxygen becomes
activity by significantly enhancing the overlap of eg orbital of redox active (Figure 8).
Co with oxygen adsorbates and greatly improving the interme- The lattice structure is still stable in this case because their
diate adsorption. Although high activity is observed in Co3O4, a energy is still relatively close. Thus, the stable ZnCo2−xNixO4
nanometer shell of amorphous CoOx(OH)y evolves during OER (x = 0–0.4) follows AEM under OER conditions. However, when
which acts as the actual electrocatalytic material.[115] x further increases to 0.6 and above, O p-band center becomes
 Multimetallic spinel oxides have been demonstrated to much higher, which induces higher activity for lattice oxygen
exhibit better OER activities as compared to monometallic and the destabilization of oxide. As a result, lattice oxygen par-
ones. Different metal ions in spinel oxides might play dif- ticipates in OER in these metastable oxides and ZnCo1.2Ni0.8O4
ferent roles during OER. Among various multimetallic spinel exhibits performance superior to IrO2. The results illuminate
oxides, ferrite MFe2O4 (M = Co, Ni, Cu, etc.) is one of the the regulation of relative positions of O p-band and MOh d-band
most intriguing catalysts.[116] A porous CoFe2O4/C composite determines the reaction mechanism and corresponding OER
is fabricated by one-step direct pyrolysis of MOF precursor activity.
and is applied for OER.[117] However, its limited number of Another important issue worth noting here is the phase
active sites and intrinsic activity greatly restrict its OER per- transformation in spinel oxide during OER. As mentioned
formance. 2D ultrathin CoFe2O4 nanosheet with abundant above, the structural evolution of spinel oxide occurs under
oxygen vacancies and large surface area is then fabricated high anodic potential. Recently, more and more researchers
to enhance its activity.[118] P-doped NiFe2O4 is fabricated and point out the structural transformation and the obtained metal
during the electrochemical activation process, a unique super- (oxy)hydroxide phase on the surface of spinel oxide is the real
ficial self-reconstruction occurs on the surface to form amor- active sites for OER.[125] Given this situation, metal (oxy)hydrox-
phous oxyhydroxides.[119] The synergistic effect between P ides should be considered as effective catalysts for OER, which
incorporation and superficial amorphous oxyhydroxide regu- will be discussed in Section 3.2.
lates the d-band center and facilitates the adsorption of water
with lower energy, thus a small overpotential of 260 mV can be
achieved. NiCo2O4 has been confirmed to serve as an excellent 3.1.4. Other Oxides
OER catalyst.[120] Similar as CoFe2O4, when oxygen vacancies
are introduced into NiCo2O4, an improvement in OER perfor- Cobalt oxides (CoOx) have received great attention. However,
mance can be realized.[37a,b] When combining NiCo2O4 nano- their intrinsic low conductivity should be further enhanced to
particles with N-doped mesoporous graphene, strong chemical improve the performance. Oxygen vacancies can be created on
bonding between N and Co is formed.[121] The overpotential oxygen-terminated (111) facets in 1D CoO nanorods, which are
of OER decreases as pyridinic-NCo bond content increases, responsible for stronger adsorption of intermediates and higher
and finally becomes much lower than that of RuO2. However, electrical conductivity.[126] In another research, O vacancies in
the content of pyrrolic-NCo bond does not affect the OER CoO can be created by incorporation of B.[127] B-doping lowers
performance. A double-exchange interaction (DEI) between the reaction barrier for breaking CoO bond and reduces the
NiOh2+ and CoOh3+ is triggered by constructing a heterojunction formation energy of O vacancy, which facilitates the conversion
between NiCo2O4 and MoS2 with covalent MoOCo bonds of Co to active Co (IV) species and lowers the free energies of
at interface and rich oxygen vacancies are created by further various oxygen intermediates, resulting in a small overpotential
reduction.[122] As a result, high-spin Ni2+ (t2g6eg2) is oxidized to of 280 mV to reach 10 mA cm−2. S can also be incorporated into
low-spin Ni3+ (t2g6eg1) while low-spin Co3+ (t2g6eg0) switches to CoOx to create structural disorder.[128] Compared with crystalline

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (17 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 8. The top panel displays the crystal structures of ZnCo2−xNixO4 with different Ni substitution ratios (x). The bottom left panel displays MOh
d-band center higher than O p-band center for x = 0 and 0.2. The bottom right panel displays O p-band center higher than MOh d-band center for
x = 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8. The bottom middle panel displays the formation energy of ZnCo2−xNixO4 and the energy difference between O p-band center and
MOh d-band center of ZnCo2−xNixO4. Reproduced with permission.[124] Copyright 2019, John Wiley & Sons.

CoOx, disordered S-CoOx increases the content of oxygen ions Jahn-Teller active Mn3+ (t2g3eg1) work synergistically to promote
in low coordination and modulates the electronic states closer the formation of OO bond, making OER activity much higher
to EF, which reduces the Gibbs free energy change for OER. than that of NiO and Mn2O3. The electronic structure of NiO
A similar phenomenon is also revealed by Deng et al.[129] S can also be tuned via Li doping (LixNi1−xO) to enhance the OER
partly occupies O location in CoO inducing a charge accumula- activity (Figure 9a).[134] Li0.5Ni0.5O containing the active Ni3+ has
tion along CoO bond. This charge redistribution around Co the highest OER activity as the result of creation of a new hole
optimizes the adsorption behaviors of oxygen intermediates state at 1.1 eV above EF and an enhanced degree of O 2p-Ni 3d
and favors energy band more continuous to promote electron hybridization induced by Li doping (Figure 9b,c). This unoccu-
transfer, eventually boosting OER. Regulation of morphology pied state optimizes the adsorption energy of *OH and thereby
of CoOx with optimized surface area will promote surface reac- facilitates the fast kinetics for OER. Vacancy engineering
tion and efficient mass transport, which enhances OER activity. is promising for catalyst design. Oxygen vacancy-rich NiO
Inspired by the plant leaf structure, a 2D/1D heterostructure embedded within ultrathin 2D/3D nanostructure possesses
composed of ultrathin CoOx nanosheets is synthesized with high conductivity and additional active sites.[135] The presence
high density and large surface area.[130] The obtained CoOx with of oxygen vacancies optimizes the adsorption energy of inter-
Co2+ in octahedral symmetry provides excellent electronic struc- mediates and a rapid OER kinetics is realized. In addition to
ture for OER, and the constructed porous framework favors oxygen vacancy, cation vacancy is also a contributing factor to
charge and ion transport. The size-dependent structure and cat- influence the activity. Metal vacancies (VM) are introduced into
alytic activity of CoOx nanoparticles are reported by Joo et al.[131] the lattice of NiO by homogeneous Fe substitution.[39b] VM
OER activity increases with decreasing the size of nanoparticle, distorts the electronic structure of adjacent Ni accompanied
which correlates to the increased oxidation state and larger by changes in NiO and NiM bond length compared with
surface area in smaller nanoperticles. Engineering interfaces those of pristine NiO. DFT calculations attribute the enhanced
is considered as an important method to enhance the catalytic catalytic activity to vacancy-induced structural flexibility and
performance. NiO/CoO transition interfacial nanowires with this structural distortion weakens the interaction with *O
abundant coordinational defective sites in the atomic-thick (Figure 9d,e). A conductive interface is constructed between
interface display high activity for OER.[132] Abundant transition NiO and carbon nitride (CN).[136] As a result, NiO and CN
interfaces with coordinational defects endow fast-redox rate linked by metallic NiN bond possesses a low Gibbs energy for
with lower activation barrier for fast electron transfer. intermediate adsorption, which improves charge transfer and
 Recently, NiOx and its composite have been studied as elec- promotes mass transportation as well. Early research has con-
trocatalysts for OER. For Ni-based species, Ni3+ (t2g6eg1) is an firmed trace amounts of Fe in electrolyte are largely responsible
ideal candidate for OER due to the optimal eg configuration. for the high activity of NiOx, which is not simply due to the
However, Ni3+ is not stable. To stabilize this highly active but increased conductivity. A high surface area can also positively
unstable species, electronic regulation by Mn in NiMn oxide impact the activity. Atomic layer deposition (ALD)-grown NiO
realizes the engineered structure and dramatically accelerated thin film is employed and incorporation of Fe from electrolyte
OER process.[133] Abundant nickel and oxygen vacancies appear can increase its activity.[137] Higher Fe concentration gives rise
in this NiMn oxide and the intrinsic catalytic active Ni3+ and to higher TOF, and two-step preconditioning in two electrolytes

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (18 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 9. a) Crystal structure of NiO and LiNO2, and the d-electron states of Ni2+ and Ni3+ under octahedral crystal field splitting. b) Electronic struc-
tures of NiO and LiNO2, and the energy diagrams of band positions, EF and the redox potential of O2/OH−. c) The calculated DOSs of LixNi1−xO.
Reproduced with permission.[134] Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society. d) LSV curves of NiFe-VM-O and NiO. e) Free energy diagram for OER of
NiFe-VM-O. Reproduced with permission.[39b] Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society.

with different Fe concentrations can create both high surface The improved OER activity of Zn-doped Fe2O3 is linked to a
area and high geometric activity. thermodynamically favored proton-coupled-electron-transfer
 Fe2O3 has emerged as a promising electrode material for (PCET) process, where the four electron oxidation reaction
photoelectrochemical due to its suitable band gap of about starts on Fe but completes on Zn (Figure 10a,b). The direct
2.1 eV.[138] However, its low conductivity makes it ineffective participation of non-redox Zn center as active site during OO
in electrochemical applications. Liquid exfoliated Fe2O3 modi- bond formation allows a higher top activity volcano. This two-
fied through defect engineering increases the number of active site reaction is prompted by the non-redox character of Zn
sites involving surface oxygen.[139] It provides flexible structure center, which maintains the same charge during OER. Fe2O3
and increased conductivity, which results in a reduction of the also exhibits facet-dependent OER activities and an unconven-
potential barrier in OER process. It is widely accepted that tional acid-etching strategy is used to regulate its crystallite
doping with redox active cations such as Co and Ni into lattice structure.[141] (012), (104), and (110) facets with typical six-coor-
can significantly improve the catalytic performance. Surpris- dinated octahedral geometry are adopted to compare their OER
ingly, López et al. indicate the OER performance of non-redox activities. Large positive ∆G*OH and ∆G*O on (104) facet suggest
active Zn doped Fe2O3 outperforms that of Ni doped Fe2O3.[140] the adsorption of these two intermediates are too weak. On the

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (19 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 10. a) Proposed OER mechanism for Zn doped Fe2O3 via PCET process. b) Free energy diagram for Zn doped Fe2O3 involving PCET at different
applied voltages. Reproduced with permission.[140] Copyright 2020, Royal Society of Chemistry. c) SEM images and schematic models of MnO2 with
bipyramid and nanowire morphologies and controlled facet orientations. d) Surface valency changes on (101) and (110) surface of MnO2 after the
reduction of surface Mn atoms. Reproduced with permission.[144] Copyright 2018, John Wiley & Sons.

contrary, ∆G*OH and ∆G*O on (110) facet are too negative due to functionality, which offers several active sites to stabilize one
the excessively strong interaction. Ideally, (012) facet has mod- adsorbate to break the limit of scaling relationship. *OOH is
erate value of ∆G for all intermediates, illustrating a low kinetics stabilized through formation of hydrogen bond between its H
barrier. Further plotting the theoretical overpotential as a func- atom and the neighboring interfacial O atom. Therefore, the
tion of ∆G*O − ∆G*OH displays a volcano-shaped relationship scaling relationship is circumvented with a reduced ∆G2+∆G3
with the facets. Specifically, (110) facet interacts too strongly value of 2.79 eV and smallest theoretical overpotential of 0.28 V.
with intermediates while (104) facet interacts too weakly. (012) Manganese oxides have structural similarity with the active
facet with the optimal interaction locates near the top, leading sites of OER enzyme in photosystem II (PS II).[143] The use
to superior OER behaviors. Further modifying (012) facet by of Mn within PS II suggests the intrinsic property of Mn is
acid-etching generates seven-coordinated (012)-O facets, where favorable for OER and extensive studies on Mn oxides as OER
the bonding hydroxyls preferably coordinate with the neighbor catalysts have been motivated. Large overpotential for MnO2
Fe sites of the seven-coordinated Fe centers, resulting in elon- under neutral conditions results from the instability of Mn3+
gated FeO bond. The near-unity eg occupancy in this structure to undergo disproportionation. By monitoring MnO2 with dif-
further strengthens the bonding of *OH and *O. As a result, ferent facet orientations (Figure 10c), a correlation between the
(012)-O outperforms (012) and locates at the top of the volcano stability of Mn3+ and crystal facet is confirmed.[144] The coverage
plot. Identification of facet-governing OER activity and further of Mn3+ is 11-fold higher on (101) facet compared with that on
modification offer possibilities to reconfigure inactive catalyst (110) facet, which results in threefold higher OER current den-
with augmented electrochemical activity. Creation of strongly sity on (101) facet. The interlayer charge comproportionation
coupled interface benefits electrolysis due to the modulated of Mn2+ and Mn4+ to generate Mn3+ is favored on (101) facet,
electronic structure of catalyst. A Janus Ni-Fe2O3 nanoparticle thus giving rise to the enhanced OER activity (Figure 10d).
with strong electronic coupling effect at the interface is synthe- Layered MnO2 consisting of edge-sharing MnO6 octahedra
sized by Zhao and his co-workers.[142] The formation of Ni-O-Fe demonstrates good OER performance. Strongin et al. indi-
bridge at the interface enables partial charge transfer from Fe vidually incorporate Li+, Na+, K+, Rb+, Cs+ between two MnO2
domain to Ni domain, protecting Ni from oxidation. Based on nanosheets and find the electrocatalytic activity of bilayer MnO2
Gibbs free energy diagrams, Fe3+ and Ni0 bind *O too weakly shows a strong dependence on the nature of intercalated alkali
or too strongly. However, at the interface, the binding energy of cation.[145] The interlayer spacing of bilayer MnO2 correlates
*O is optimized since it adsorbs at the bridge site between Fe with the size of alkali cation, and the continuing drop in over-
and Ni. The unique Ni-O-Fe at the interface provides multisite potential occurs when the size of alkali cation increases. This

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (20 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

can be ascribed to the easier diffusion of water in and out of vacant orbitals, which can stabilize O radical. The following
the interlayer with increasing interlayer distance. When MnO2 OO coupling is also generated at W6+ site with almost 0 eV
is in the form of single layer decorated with Mn and O vacan- of Gibbs free energy. Mixed bimetalic (any two of Fe, Co, Ni)
cies, it shows half-metallic character with improved electronic hydroxides can exceed corresponding single metal hydrox-
properties and conductivity, which are not possessed by its bulk ides in OER due to the altered charge distribution between
counterpart.[146] Ultrathin δ-MnO2 nanosheets with only two- cations.[154] When combination Co, Fe, and Ni to form trime-
monolayer thickness (1.4 nm) expose numerous active sites tallic hydroxide, a better OER activity than that of bimetallic
resulting in good performance for OER.[147] The remarkable one can be realized. An electronic push/pull effect of Co and
OER activity can be attributed to the abundant oxygen vacan- Fe is utilized in Ni-based hydroxide.[155] Fe pulls partial elec-
cies (VO) and associated Mn3+ active sites. Mn3+ makes the trons from Ni/Co leading to increased electron affinity of Ni/
nanosheets half-metallic and VO promotes strong H2O adsorp- Co sites. On the contrary, Co pushes its partial electrons to Ni
tion. The similar result can also be found in Co doped MnO2 and increases the number of lattice O2− as proton adsorption
ultrathin nanosheets with abundant oxygen vacancies.[148] The sites, facilitating faster charge transfer. By adjusting the con-
enhanced activity mainly originates from better conductivity tents of Co/Fe dopants, an optimized catalyst with a composi-
and the decreased adsorption energy of *OH on O sites neigh- tion of Ni0.8Co0.1Fe0.1OxHy demonstrates a low overpotential of
boring the doped Co and oxygen vacancies. The industrial-scale 239 mV and a Tafel slope of 45.4 mV dec−1. Another trimetallic
synthesis of γ-MnO2 performed in concentrated sulfuric acid hydroxide system is Zn;NiFeOxHy.[156] Although Zn2+ is redox-
suggests its inherent chemical stability in acidic environment. inactive, its strong Lewis acid property can withdraw electrons
By a spectroscopic identification method, Nakamura et al. from the active sites and consequently prolongs the lifetime
discover that γ-MnO2 can catalyze OER without corrosion in of Ni and Fe with high oxidation states. Xue et al. fabricated
acidic solution within a proper potential window.[149] Mn3+ is non-stochiometric Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon with alternating 4- and
generated at 1.4 V confirmed by the adsorption peak in UV–vis 6-coordinated Ni edge atoms (NR-Ni(OH)2), which is realized by
spectrum of the electrode, which leads to the initiation of OER introduction of tensile strain along its length direction.[157] The
at 1.6 V. When the potential is higher than 1.8 V, the dissolu- existence of tensile strain can stabilize 4-coordinated Ni and
tion of MnO2 through MnO4− is verified by the adsorption peak the adsorption of *OOH onto 4-coordinated Ni at edge is much
in UV–vis spectrum of the electrolyte. Thus, OER can be cata- easier. Impressively, it only requires an overpotential of 162 mV.
lyzed by γ-MnO2 within a stable potential window between 1.6 An interesting phenomenon is observed in Co(OH)2 where
and 1.75 V. Consequently, γ-MnO2 can catalyze OER at 1.73 V intercalation with benzoate ions to induce interlayer expansion
(10 mA cm−2) for over 8000 h in a pH 2 electrolyte with no clear can enhance its OER performance.[158] The obtained Co(OH)
decrease in activity. In contrast, γ-MnO2 is deactivated com- (C6H5COO)·H2O can accommodate more electrolyte ions
pletely at 1.8 V (100 mA cm−2) within 120 h. Therefore, the limi- and is favorable for mass diffusion and charge transport. Fur-
tations on the stability of transition metal-based OER catalysts ther assembling hydroxides with conductive substrates (such
under acidic conditions can be overcome by spectroscopic iden- as CNTs and graphene) promises not only effective electron
tification of stable potential window within which deactivation transfer and mass diffusion, but also remarkable durability.[159]
can be suppressed while simultaneously OER can be catalyzed LDHs are a class of ion lamellar compounds made up of
efficiently. positively charged host layers, the interlayer anions, and solvent
 Other progress of transition metal oxides applied in acidic molecules.[160] Trivalent cations that are coordinated octahedrally
OER condition has been made by experimental and theoretical by hydroxyl groups partially replace divalent cations, and the
validation. The researchers find that acid-stable transition metal additional positive charge is balanced by interlayer anions. LDHs
oxides are always constituted of diverse and complex ternary have the general formula of [M2+1−xM3+x(OH)2]z+An−z/n·mH2O,
and quaternary elements.[150] And engineering efficient proton where M2+ and M3+ are divalent and trivalent metal cations and
acceptors integrated into oxide structure can enable higher An− is interlayer anion.[161] Each hydroxyl group within LDH
OER rate in acidic solution at lower overpotential.[151] layer is oriented toward the interlayer region and may form
 hydrogen bonds with interlayer anions and water molecules.
 A wide range of 3d transition metals can be introduced into
3.2. Transition Metal Hydroxides and Oxyhydroxides LDHs, and the interlayer anions and distance can be changed
 by anion exchange. Therefore, the composition of LDHs can
Ni(OH)2 is one of the most widely investigated transition metal be modulated flexibly. Moreover, liquid exfoliation can enlarge
hydroxides. 2D holey Ni(OH)2 nanosheets are fabricated with layer spacing and weaken the interaction between host slabs,
embedded Zn as template for hole production.[152] Significantly leading to the formation of ultrathin nanosheets with coordina-
enhanced OER activity of this holey Ni(OH)2 is achieved com- tively unsaturated active sites which are beneficial to OER. NiFe
pared with that of pristine Ni(OH)2, which is attributed to the LDH is regarded as the most efficient OER catalyst in alkaline
high surface accessibility affording more active sites and a fast solution. However, the layered structure makes bulk NiFe LDH
charge transfer and diffusion of electrolyte. Meanwhile, the hole intrinsically unstable during OER.[162] The interlayer basal plane
formation leads to the adjacent crystal lattice distorted and high of NiFe LDH contributes to OER activity, but the slow diffusion
positive charge density is induced around the hole edges, which of OH− within interlayers during OER causes dissolution of
strengthens *OH bonding and weakens *O adsorption. W6+ NiFe LDH due to the local acidic environment. Thus, exfoliating
doping can boost the OER performance of Ni(OH)2 greatly.[153] multi-layered NiFe LDH into atomically thin nanosheets can
The d0 W6+ atom with a low spin-state has more outermost improve this diffusion and consequently enhance the catalytic

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (21 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

stability. Further introducing abundant pores into the monolayer during OER of NiOOH, and the stability of it is sensitive to
NiFe LDH nanosheet, high concentration of oxygen and cation cations in the electrolyte.
vacancies are produced which work synergistically to increase The activity of NiOOH can be increased in two ways: by addi-
the electropositivity of NiFe LDH.[163] As a result, H2O adsorp- tion of Fe into NiOOH or by transforming γ-NiOOH into more
tion and the bonding strength of *OH are enhanced, endowing active β-NiOOH via aging. A very remarkable OER activity
NiFe LDH a low overpotential. The selective formation of enhancement can be achieved with Fe doping into NiOOH
cation vacancies in NiFe LDH can be realized by strong alkali (Ni1−xFexOOH) over their pure Ni and Fe parent oxyhydroxides
etching.[164] The adsorption of *O on Ni atom adjacent to Ni or when Fe levels below 25%.[177] Fe3+ substitutes Ni3+ resulting
Fe vacancy is significantly enhanced, and the adsorption of *OH in a short FeO bond than that in FeOOH. In the absence of
is weakened at the same time, rendering the conversion of *O to doping, all intermediates adsorb too weakly on pure NiOOH
*OH energetically favorable and resulting in a small overpoten- and too strongly on FeOOH. Fe3+ in Ni1−xFexOOH exhibits a
tial. In addition to the above mentioned methods, plasma reduc- significantly lower overpotential than Ni3+ does, and its altered
tion strategy,[165] ionic reductive complexation extraction,[166] electronic environment results in a shift in its binding ener-
and flame-engraved method[167] can be used for fast exfoliation gies toward optimal values. However, as Fe level rises above
and creation of multivacancies. To accurately reveal the catalytic 25%, the growth of catalytically inactive FeOOH declines the
mechanism of NiFe LDH, ultrathin NiFe LDH with 1/3 unit-cell activity. In addition, the Faradaic resistance for the most active
thickness and 100% exposed active sites is prepared to avoid the Ni1−xFexOOH is 1 to 2 orders of magnitude smaller than that
interference of nonactive ions in the subsurface and bulk.[168] of pure NiOOH and FeOOH.[178] However, at high overpoten-
Operando synchrotron X-ray analysis indicates Ni2+ and Fe3+ are tial, different Ni1−xFexOOH exhibit similar resistance despite
fully oxidized into tetravalent state. Besides, both Ni- and Fe-cen- their catalytic activities are different, suggesting resistance is
tered octahedra lose one bonded oxygen after activation for OER, not the sole controlling factor for OER activity. Compared with
indicating OER occurs on these tetravalent cations following a that of NiOOH and FeOOH, the apparent activation energy
decoupled proton/electron LOM mechanism. Introducing a of Ni1−xFexOOH is 40–50 kJ mol−1 lower, approaching that of
third cation into NiFe LDH to form ternary NiFeM LDH (M = IrO2. Besides, the charge relaxation related to the formation
Co,[169] V,[170] Cr,[171] Cu,[172] W[173]) can reduce the overpotential for of OER intermediates is much more favorable with Fe incor-
OER due to the synergistic interactions among metals, modified poration. Further research by Boettcher et al. demonstrates Fe
electronic structure, narrowed bandgap with enhanced conduc- sites in different local environments within Ni1−xFexOOH have
tivity, facile electron transfer, and abundant active sites. different effects on OER activity.[179] Upon introducing Fe into
 Although those transition metal hydroxides and LDHs NiOOH, the electronic properties, reduction potential, redox
can achieve high OER performance, many reported works peak size and shape of Ni1−xFexOOH will change indepen-
evidence that most of them will undergo structural self- dently on OER activity. Fe initially incorporates into NiOOH at
reconstruction as a result of electro-derived oxidation to form the surface/edge/defect sites before moving into bulk to form
oxyhydroxides, which act as the real active sites for OER.[174] Ni-O-Fe species which dramatically enhances catalysis but has
Thus, direct synthesis and application of oxyhydroxides for little effect on Ni redox species (Figure 11a). Ni1−xFexOOH pre-
OER are of great importance. NiOOH is regarded as a very pared by different methods have similar Fe contents and activi-
promising catalyst for OER. The processes occur on NiOOH ties, but large differences exist in conductivity, e− per Ni, anodic
surface during OER and the influence of electrolyte on its per- peak potential, and redox wave shape (Figure 11b–d). Therefore,
formance should be well understood. The activity of NiOOH the OER activity of Ni1−xFexOOH does not depend on Fe in the
is very sensitive to the pH of electrolyte, higher pH leading bulk or on average electrochemical properties of Ni measured
to higher activity. in situ surface enhanced Raman spectros- by voltammetry, but instead on the local structure. Given that
copy (SERS) shows the pH-dependent changes of NiOOH OER in pH-neutral electrolyte requires water adsorption and
under OER conditions.[175] A superoxo-type intermediate dissociation processes, a high hydration energy enhancing the
(NiOO−) acts as preferential oxygen precursor at pH > 11, bond strength between catalyst surface and water is of great
and O2 generates through the decomposition of this nega- importance. Sargent and his co-workers propose that incorpo-
tively charged surface species. When pH is in the range of ration hydration effect cations into Ni-Fe oxyhydroxide frame-
7–11, in addition to the lower stability of NiOOH, the insuffi- work influences water adsorption and OER performance in
cient NiOO− makes NiOOH unsuitable as OER catalyst under neutral electrolyte.[180] In pristine Ni-Fe framework, the surface
this circumstance. Therefore, the pH of electrolyte plays an OH terminal groups determine the interfacial water distribu-
important role in the surface deprotonation of NiOOH, which tion via hydrogen-bonding interactions. When hydration-effect-
in turn affects its OER activity. Apart from pH of electrolyte, promoting (HEP) Mg2+ is added into the framework, it attracts
alkali cation (Li+, Na+, K+, and Cs+) in electrolyte influences interfacial water molecules and leads to a shorter distance
the OER activity of NiOOH as well.[176] An intrinsic cation between the oxygen atom in water and cations, offering more
effect on OER of NiOOH is observed with an activity trend water molecules for dissociation. However, the water-catalyst
of Cs+ > Na+ > K+ > Li+, which is not related to an increase distance is still dominated by hydrogen-bonding when incor-
in the surface area caused by cation-induced exfoliation. Since porating hydration-effect-limiting (HEL) Ba2+ (Figure 11e).
the negatively charged NiOO− is yielded as the key interme- Thus, the HEP Ni-Fe-Mg performs better than HEL Ni-Fe-Ba
diate, cation interacts with NiOO− leading to the formation of (Figure 11f). By increasing pH, the catalytic advantage of HEP
NiOO−-M+, which is stabilized better by bigger cation (Cs+). Ni-Fe-Mg is reduced, which is due to the abundant OH− at
This conclusion again validates the occurrence of NiOO− high pH and inefficiency of alkaline earth cations in alkaline

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (22 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 11. a) CV curves of NiOxHy cycled initially in Fe-free 1 m KOH and then cycled in 1 m KOH with 1 mm Fe(NO3)3. The inset displays a possible
schematic of Fe incorporation into NiOxHy as cycling in Fe-contained solution. CV curves of Fe-free NiOxHy compared with those of spiked Fe-NiOxHy
cycled b) 2 and c) 100 times in 1 mm Fe(NO3)3 and codeposited NiFeOxHy with similar Fe content. d) e− per Ni obtained of codeposited and Fe-spiked
samples. Reproduced with permission.[179] Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. e) DFT simulation snapshots of Ni-Fe-Mg (left) and Ni-Fe-Ba
(right) catalyst emerged in aqueous solution, and different water-oxygen-metal cation distances induced by Mg2+ (middle upper) and Ba2+ (middle
lower). OER polarization curves of Ni-Fe, Ni-Fe-Mg and Ni-Fe-Ba catalyst in f) CO2 saturated 0.5 m KHCO3 and g) 1 m KOH. Reproduced with permis-
sion.[180] Copyright 2020, John Wiley & Sons.

solution (Figure 11g). This phenomenon further confirms HEP transition metals including Cr, Mn, and Ni are evaluated and
advantage is occurred in neutral electrolyte. the substituted dopants are all confirmed to be the active sites
 It is observed that too much Fe incorporated into NiOOH for OER.[184] Although all these dopants can improve the activity
will lead to the formation of less active FeOOH with poor elec- of FeOOH, Co-doped FeOOH exhibits best due to the most
trical conductivity (≈10−5 S cm−1). To realize excellent activity optimal intermediate binding energy. β-FeOOH nanorods can
and durability, FeOOH/Co/FeOOH hybrid nanotube arrays are gradually convert into Fe2O3 nanorods during a simple thermal
synthesized.[181] The inner Co metal cores serve as highly con- treatment. Interestingly, the existence of an intermediate
ductive layers to facilitate electron transfer. Besides, the strong FeOOH structure with high lattice strains during phase transi-
electron interactions between Co and FeOOH lower the energy tion is clearly identified.[185] The strained-FeOOH exhibits high
barriers of intermediates and in turn promote OER activity. OER activity and stability in neutral condition, while β-FeOOH
When converting bulk δ-FeOOH into δ-FeOOH nanosheets, its shows rapid deactivation under the same condition.
semiconductive characteristics transform into half-metallic con-
ductive properties.[182] Further formation of Fe vacancies leads
to a higher conductivity. In vacancy-rich δ-FeOOH nanosheet, 3.3. Transition Metal Chalcogenides
the second neighboring Fe to Fe vacancies possessing a stronger
binding strength with *O act as the new active site. Coordi- Transition metal chalcogenides (TMXs), including metal
nation tuning of FeOOH is another effective way to improve sulfides (TMSs), selenides (TMSes), and tellurides (TMTs) have
conductivity and activity. FeO bonds of FeOOH are partially attracted tremendous attention for OER. Compared to their
broken resulting in unsaturated FeO6 coordination geometry oxide counterparts, TMXs usually have better electrical conduc-
and a relatively narrow bandgap, which are engineered by Co tivity because the gap between their valence and conduction
modulation.[183] Consequently, Co-FeOOH exhibits improved band is narrow. According to their structures, TMXs can be clas-
conductivity and the reorganized Fe sites show an enhanced sified into two categories: layered MX2 and nonlayered MxXy. In
capability for adsorbing OH−. Compared with that of FeOOH, layered MX2, one layer of M atoms is bonded with two layers
the current density at 1.56 V of Co-FeOOH increases by nearly of X atoms. Each layer stacks on each other by the relatively
271-fold. The OER activities of FeOOH substituted by other weak van der Waals force, which can be easily exfoliated into

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (23 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

monolayers. MX2 can be identified as three different types, Combination of cobalt sulfide with conductive carbon can
namely one-layer tetragonal (1T), two-layer hexagonal (2H), promote the activity as well as the stability. CoS2 core with a
and three-layer rhombohedral (3R).[186] Two kinds of surface high work function captures electrons from N-doped graphitic
sites on basal plane and edge have anisotropic properties. The carbon to form an electron-poor carbon shell with downshift of
sites on basal plane possess a low surface energy and are less EF of carbon, which facilitates adsorption of intermediates and
active than those on edge. Moreover, the in-plane electrical con- decreases activation energy.[193] Co9S8 can be encapsulated in
ductivity is much higher than the interlayer conductivity. The various carbon matrix by different degree of carbonization.[194]
nonlayered MxXy adopts pyrite or marcasite structure where The enhanced conductivity, effective electronic coupling
M atoms are octahedrally bonded to X atoms. The octahedra between the components, and suppressed agglomeration syner-
in pyrite are corner-shared while those in marcasite are edge- gistically promote OER.
shared. The surface energy and electronic structure are thought In addition to cobalt sulfides, various nickel sulfides have
to depend on the d-electron count of M atoms, and those M been investigated. Analogously, the complex Ni-S coordination
atoms on low-index surfaces normally have reduced coordina- environments result in various compositions, including Ni3S2,
tion number, which is expected to improve OER activity. NiS, and NiS2. Many researchers have confirmed energy-level
 TMSs primarily include cobalt sulfide, nickel sulfide, iron engineering via N doping in nickel sulfide can modulate the
sulfide, copper sulfide, molybdenum sulfide, tungsten sulfide configuration of electron and the position of d-band center,
and their composites. The complex coordination environments giving rise to enhanced electrical conductivity and optimal
between transition metal and sulfur give rise to various stoichi- intermediate adsorption energy.[195] Electronic modulation
ometric compositions. Various cobalt sulfides have been syn- of nickel sulfide by cation doping is widely investigated. The
thesized and studied as OER catalysts, including CoS2, Co3S4, semiconductor-to-conductor transition of NiS2 can be real-
and Co9S8. CoS2, Co3S4, and Co9S8 hollow nanospheres are pre- ized after Cu incorporation.[196] The metallic-like behavior of
pared to study the relationship between phase and composition Cu-NiS2 is attributed to the contribution from d orbitals of Cu
and properties for OER.[187] The pyrite-type CoS2 exhibits supe- atoms. This phenomenon can also be observed when NiS2 is
rior OER activity to Co3S4, and Co9S8. In CoS2, all cobalt ions doped with V.[197] Electron transfer from V to Ni enables Ni site
are coordinated in the form of CoS6, while only two-third and to gain more electrons. Besides, Fe doping introduces more
one-ninth of cobalt ions are octahedrally coordinated in Co3S4 occupied Fe 3d6 states at the top of valence band and trans-
and Co9S8. Because octahedrally coordinated Co (CoOh) is more forms NiS2 into metallic phase.[198] Fe-doped Ni3S2 nanosheet
active for OER, a greater amount of CoOh in CoS2 leads to better arrays on conductive FeNi alloy foil (Fe-Ni3S2/FeNi) possess
activity. Several strategies have been developed to improve more metallic states than Ni3S2, which accelerates electron
the activities of cobalt sulfides. Given that octahedral sites are transfer.[199] The adsorption of H2O is stronger and adsorp-
catalytic active, exposing surface with predominant octahedral tion energy is lower on Fe-Ni3S2. Much easier O2 desorption
sites is highly desirable. The spin state determined by eg occu- from the surface of Fe-Ni3S2 is also observed. When Fe is over-
pancy is another key factor for enhancing OER activity. Thus, doped, smaller and defect/strain-rich nanodomains are gener-
modulation of spin state in the exposed active plane should be ated within Ni3S2.[200] This composition segregation introduces
an effective strategy. Co3S4 atomically thin nanosheet exposing strain, lattice distortion, and grain boundaries in Ni3S2, where
octahedral (111) facet possesses better OER activity than its bulk they work synergistically to improve electrical conductivity and
counterpart.[188] The high-spin Co3+ in octahedron will undergo adsorption of OH group. Unlike cobalt and nickel sulfides, iron
Jahn-Teller distortion to remove the degeneracy and form sulfides are rarely reported for OER. Pyrrhotite Fe7S8 nanosheet
a slightly distorted prism, which plays a pivotal role in maxi- with mixed valence states and metallic conductivity is synthe-
mizing OER activity (Figure 12a–c). Modification cobalt sulfides sized.[201] d orbitals of FeII and FeIII overlap with each other,
with heteroatom or heterostructure is another approach to pro- endowing Fe7S8 with high OER activity. Another mackinawite
mote the activity. Oxygen-incorporated amorphous CoSx porous FeS nanosheet is recently reported to serve as OER catalyst.[202]
nanocube shows advantages over the benchmark RuO2 in alka- In addition, MoS2[203] and WS2[204] have also been explored as
line/neutral medium.[189] It tends to form porous structure efficient OER catalysts.
consisting of lots of defects and generates more active CoS Similar to TMSs, TMSes recently emerge as promising cata-
dangling bonds, which dramatically strengthen *O adsorption lysts for OER. CoSe2, possessing high conductivity and t2g6eg1
and promotes OER. When N is incorporated into CoS2, elec- electronic configuration near the optimal eg filling, is an ideal
trons will transfer from Co to the adjacent N.[190] The resulting candidate for OER. When single-unit-thick CoSe2 nanosheet
electron-deficient Co tends to form higher oxidation state and with metallic character is fabricated, an ultrahigh fraction of
facilitates OER with a lower reaction barrier. Similarly, upon low-coordinated surface atoms is exposed.[205] The structure
incorporating P into Co9S8, the electrical conductivity of Co9S8 distortion occurring in the nanosheet decreases the surface
is significantly enhanced.[191] Besides, the Bader charges of energy and in turn favors the structural stability. As a result, it
Co site increase, suggesting more charge carriers are gener- has around 4.5 times higher catalytic activity than its bulk coun-
ated which can participate in OER directly. A heterostructure terpart. It is known that CoSe2 can exist in both stable cubic
of Pt nanoparticle supported on CoS2 is synthesized.[192] The pyrite-type and metastable orthorhombic marcasite-type, and
electron-deficient region of CoS2 and electron-rich region of Pt subtle structural distinction can affect its catalytic performance.
are generated due to the strong electron transfer. The higher Yao et al. successfully induce exfoliation, oxygen vacancies, and
valent Co sites benefit the adsorption of OH− ions and reduce phase transformation from cubic to orthorhombic CoSe2 at
the energy barrier to form *OOH, accelerating OER kinetics. the same time using Ar/O2 plasma.[206] The synergistic effect

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (24 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 12. a) HAADF image and intensity line profiles of Co3S4 atomically thin nanosheets, and the section view of original octahedron and Jahn-
Teller distorted octahedron along [111] zone axis section. b) LSV polarization curves of Co3S4 atomically thin nanosheets, Co3S4/TETA, and bulk Co3S4.
c) Structural transformation process by reducing the thickness of Co3S4 to atomic scale. Reproduced with permission.[188] Copyright 2015, John Wiley
& Sons. d) Geometries, 3D charge density differences, and Bader charge numbers of atoms in CoSe2-origin and CoSe2−x-Pt. e) Energy profiles of
CoSe2-origin, CoSe2−x, CoSe2−x-Pt, CoSe2−x-Ni, and CoSe2−x-Ru for OER. Reproduced with permission.[208] Copyright 2019, John Wiley & Sons.

of these factors significantly improves the OER activity with ions can induce structural transformation from orthorhombic
an overpotential of only 251 mV at 10 mA cm−2. Doping engi- CoSe2 to monoclinic Co3Se4.[209] On account of this transfor-
neering is applied to boost the OER activity of CoSe2. By incor- mation, the Gibbs free energy of RDS is significantly reduced.
porating Zn into CoSe2, the DOS of Co decreases, leading to a In addition to cation doping, P-doped CoSe2 hollow cluster is
weak binding strength of intermediates on Co.[207] Besides, the described to perform well as OER catalyst.[210] Upon P doping,
elongated or compressed CoSe6 octahedra due to Jahn-Teller P-CoSe2 shows metallic feature with the upshift of d orbital
effect are generated in the lattice, which modulate d-orbital dis- of Co and more electrons filling in conduction band. Conse-
tribution and adsorption properties of CoSe2. Atomically coor- quently, the free-energy change in RDS and the overpotential
dinated PtCoSe moieties in defective CoSe2 are synthesized of P-CoSe2 are much lower than those of CoSe2. Additionally,
through filling the plasma-created Se vacancies in CoSe2 with nickel selenides have also been investigated as OER catalysts.
single Pt atomic species.[208] The OER activity is remarkably Electrical conductivity and water adsorption ability are two key
enhanced with the filling of Pt, which is much better than that factors to influence OER activity, which are strongly related to
of CoSe2 filled by Ni and even Ru. That is because the single the spin states of catalyst. The spin states of Ni2+ in ultrathin
Pt can induce much higher electronic distribution asymmetry NiSe2 nanosheets are tuned to delocalized states by introducing
degree than both single Ni and Ru, and benefit the adsorption structural distortion, giving rise to a remarkably enhanced
of intermediates (Figure 12d,e). Interestingly, addition of Cu2+ OER activity and conductivity compared to those of bulk

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (25 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

counterpart.[211] Specifically, the adsorption energy of H2O on is a kind of water- and air-stable, metallic, and layered mate-
NiSe2 layer is much lower than that on bulk NiSe2, and the cur- rial.[219] When it is exfoliated into nanosheet, the basal
rent density at overpotential of 0.5 V is 11 times higher. Nickel plane of Fe3GeTe2 is highly active toward OER and its 2D struc-
selenides with adjustable electronic behaviors can be realized by ture preserves the metallic character and exposes lots of active
changing the Se content as well.[212] In comparison with NiSe, sites.
Ni3Se2 with a decrease in Se content becomes metallic state Although high activity has been achieved, the electro-
and displays better OER activity. A heterostructure consisting chemical stability of TMXs under OER conditions should be
of NiSe-Ni0.85Se is successfully prepared.[213] The enhanced elec- examined. Plots of equilibrium potential versus pH, that is,
trical conductivity and more favorable OH− adsorption endow Pourbaix diagrams, are applied to analyze corrosion and pas-
it with remarkable OER performance. In addition to the het- sivation behaviors.[220] In case of pH < 7, soluble metal ions
erostructure constructed solely by selenides, creation of cross- are favorably formed beyond the OER potential. Therefore, it
doped metal chalcogenides, Ni3S2/NiSe, with addition of only is difficult to find stable TMXs for OER under acidic condi-
10% Se apparently reduces the overpotential compared to that tions. In case of pH ≥ 7, transition metal (oxy)hydroxides are
of pure Ni3S2 due to the enhanced conductivity and less-oxi- easy to form beyond the OER potential, and chalcogens tend
dized surface.[214] to transform into soluble species. Thus, the leaching of chalco-
 Compared with TMSs and TMSes, only a few researches gens happens during OER and TMXs act as pre-catalysts irre-
focus on TMTs as OER catalysts. Nanocrystalline CoTe2 is versibly converting to (oxy)hydroxides which are the true cata-
shown to have the ability to catalyze OER.[215] Moreover, it lytically active species. If the conversion process is slow or the
performs better than CoTe because the binding strength and formed (oxy)hydroxide layer is dense enough to prevent TMX
lateral interaction of intermediates on it are different.[216] core from further oxidation, a core–shell structure can form
Interface engineering of NiTe nanoarrrays to form NiTe/NiS where the conductive inner core facilitates electron transfer and
heterojunction is realized by coupling with NiS nanodots.[217] the outer shell serves as the real active site. Vertically aligned
Compared with NiTe, the interface-rich NiTe/NiS shows CoTe nanoarrays are synthesized, which exhibit excellent OER
ultralow overpotential of only 209 mV at 10 mA cm−2 with a performance with a low overpotential of 350 mV to deliver
Tafel slope of 49 mV dec−1. Because intermediates are adsorbed 100 mA cm−2.[221] However, the theoretical overpotential of CoTe
too strongly on NiTe, the incorporation of NiS leads to electron is 0.74 V obtained by DFT calculations, which is much inferior
density redistribution and consequently optimizes the binding to the experimental result. After OER testing, the appearance
energy of intermediates. Besides, some unusual TMTs have of Co 2p peaks at 780.5 eV and attenuation of satellite peak
also been studied. The intrinsic high OER activity is revealed in XPS represent the occurrence of Co3+ (Figure 13a). A thin
on amorphous RuTe2 porous nanorod.[218] The local short-range cobalt (oxy)hydroxide layer with interplanar spacing of 0.211 nm
disorder is observed, which induces distortion-strain effect and coated on CoTe is observed by high-resolution TEM (HRTEM)
makes RuTe2 meta-stable. This distortion-strain effect further (Figure 13b). Moreover, a strong irreversible oxidation of Co2+ to
sensitizes Tepπ coupling and enhances electron-transfer Co3+ and the formation of CoO bond are reflected in the posi-
of Ru site. The excellent inter-orbital p–d transfer boosts tive shift of cobalt K edge in X-ray absorption near-edge struc-
OER performance. A more uncommon telluride, Fe3GeTe2, ture (XANES) spectrum (Figure 13c). All above observations

Figure 13. a) XPS spectra of Co 2p, and b) HRTEM image of CoTe nanoarrays after OER. c) XANES Co K-edge spectra of pristine CoTe nanoarrays,
CoTe nanoarrays after OER, Co foil, CoO, and CoOOH. Reproduced with permission.[221] Copyright 2019, John Wiley & Sons. d) Polarization curves of
pristine Co0.37Ni0.26Fe0.37O and the in situ electrochemical oxidation tuned CoO (ECT-X-CoO, where X stands for the specific chalcogenides of S, Se, or
Te which CoO was derived from). e) Summary of the overpotential at 10 mA cm−2 of pristine TMOs and ECT-X-TMOs. Reproduced with permission.[223]
Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (26 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

indicate the reconstruction of CoTe during OER. On the formed variation in metal/phosphorus stoichiometric ratio can gen-
CoOOH (1014) surface, Co3+ binds *OOH strongly and makes erate significant changes in the physicochemical properties. In
the free energy of *OOH formation much close to the optimal metal-rich monophosphide, abundant metal–metal bonds and
value. Therefore, the active site should be CoOOH formed on metal–phosphorous bonds can endow TMPs with better elec-
the surface. When NiSe is exposed under OER conditions, the trical conductivity, thermal and chemical stability than those
single-crystal nanowires of NiSe are converted to polycrystal- of phosphorus-rich TMPs with plenty of phosphorus–phos-
line particles made of ultrathin nanosheets.[222] Selected area phorus bonds.[16] As mentioned in the last section, most of
electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of the sample after OER is transition metal chalcogenides possess semiconductor nature
indexed to planes of Ni(OH)2, and the different lattice fringes and edge-distributed active sites, and they are usually needed
in HRTEM of samples before and after OER also confirm the to be exfoliated into few layers to improve conductivity and
conversion. Furthermore, the Se content after OER decreases increase exposed active sites. In contrast, most of metal-rich
from 50.2% to 4.0%, while O content increases from 2.4% to TMPs exhibit excellent conductivity and the exposed crystalline
52.8%. Thus, NiSe is almost completely converted into Ni(OH)2 surfaces can offer active sites without forming layered structure.
under OER conditions which acts as the real active site. Unex- Although pristine TMPs with advantageous physicochem-
pectedly, the activity of NiSe-derived Ni(OH)2 is higher than ical properties are suitable for OER, further boosting the
that of Ni(OH)2 synthesized directly. Similar phenomenon intrinsic activity, exposing abundant active sites, and creating
can be observed when a family of TMXs are employed as OER a favorable local environment should be taken into considera-
catalysts.[223] The occurrence of irreversible oxidation peaks in tions. Elemental doping by incorporating foreign elements can
CV curves of TMXs indicates that chalcogenides transform modulate the catalyst’s electronic structure, which results in
into (oxy)hydroxides. Significant improvement of OER activity significant changes in their physicochemical properties and
is achieved by this in situ oxidation process, which makes the then activity. 2D ultrathin arrays of M-doped CoP (M = Fe, Ni,
derived (oxy)hydroxides outperform the corresponding pristine and Mg) are prepared.[225] Among them, FeCoP exhibits the
ones (Figure 13d,e). Large surface area, plenty of nanopores, most promoted activity toward OER. DOS of FeCoP displays
and a certain amount of defects are generated during OER. larger charge density around EF than that of CoP, which pro-
Inspired by this, TMXs can be employed as templates to pro- vides more charge carriers for OER. Besides, a more posi-
duce (oxy)hydroxides with porous structures and abundant tive Coδ+ in FeCoP benefits the adsorption of intermediates,
defects, which usually show higher OER activity than those pre- namely a much lower adsorption energy of H2O on FeCoP
pared by conventional methods. than on pristine CoP. In addition, the rapid desorption of O2
 due to the lower barrier on Fe site can accelerate OER. Chai
 et al. report Ni-Co bimetal phosphide nanocages with uni-
3.4. Transition Metal Nitrides and Phosphides form dispersity of Ni and Co as OER catalyst.[226] Compared
 with Ni2P, Co substitution dramatically enhances OER per-
The first application of transition metal phosphides (TMPs) formance, but it is strongly related to the substitution ratio.
for OER can date back to 1989.[224] The chemistry of phos- Ni0.6Co1.4P nanocages exhibit remarkable activity with an over-
phides is very complex because different elements and stoichi- potential of 300 mV to reach 10 mA cm−2 (Figure 14a). Upon
ometric ratios can generate different structures. For instance, Co doping, DOS at EF is increased and d-states are closer to
there are more than nine kinds of nickel phosphides with dif- EF, which drive more charge participating in OER and generate
ferent nickel phosphorus stoichiometric ratios. Only minor rapid charge-transfer kinetics (Figure 14b,c). More importantly,

Figure 14. a) LSV polarization curves of Ni0.6Co1.4P, Ni2P, and CoP in 1 m KOH. DOS of b) NiCoP and c) Ni0.6Co1.4P. d) The corresponding charge
density distribution plots of NiCoP and Ni0.6Co1.4P. Reproduced with permission.[226] Copyright 2018, John Wiley & Sons.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (27 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

the charge redistribution makes Co site electron-deficiency, hydroxide on the surface.[235] Actually, the electrocatalyst used
which is regarded as better active site for OH− adsorption for OER is the partial oxidized O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2 rather than the
(Figure 14d). Co1.33Fe0.67Px nanorods with uniform 1D structure pure Ni0.75Fe0.25P2. On pure Ni0.75Fe0.25P2, although Fe sites can
are fabricated to illustrate the multimetallic synergistic effect in reduce the energy barrier for RDS, it has a strong capacity to
improving OER.[227] The overpotential to achieve 10 mA cm−2 decompose *OOH back into *O and *OH. On the contrary,
is 372.2 mV for pristine Co2P, which is much enhanced to all the reaction steps of OER are endothermic at U = 0 V on
293.4 mV upon Fe incorporation. Under high potential of OER O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2, and *OOH can be easily adsorbed on Fe sites
condition, Fe is oxidized into Fe (IV), on which the adsorbed which benefits its further decomposition into O2 (Figure 15).
*OH is deprotonated and the resultant *O is stabilized. Fur- Apart from cation doping, anion doping can also be adopted.
ther OO coupling is promoted on Co sites. The balanced ratio O-incorporated CoP possesses favorable thermodynamics
of Fe and Co in Co1.33Fe0.67Px maximizes the synergetic coor- through electronic structure modification.[236] Upon O doping,
peration between Co and Fe. Beyond Co and Fe, elements of the DOS close to EF apparently increases, suggesting higher
Cr,[228] Ni,[229] Mo,[230] and V[231] are successfully introduced into charge carrier density and favorable charge transfer. And
various TMPs and recognized as good dopants. In fact, many oxygen atoms on the surface can form hydrogen bonds with
TMPs serve as precatalysts during OER and the real active *OOH, which can stabilize *OOH and thus reduce the Gibbs
sites result from the surface formed oxyhydroxides, which is free energy changes. S doped CoP nanoparticle has improved
similar as the phenomenon observed in TMXs. Thus, cation charge-transfer characteristics owing to its modified electronic
regulation actually regulates the electronic structure of derived structure.[237] S-doping localizes the electron density in Co 3d
oxyhydroxide. Hollow and conductive Fe-Co-P alloy nanostruc- orbital of CoP near EF and the 3p orbital of S enhances the
tures are applied for OER, and it is confirmed that in situ gen- metallic nature of CoP. Compared to that of bare CoP, the DOS
erated FeOOH on Fe-Co-P possesses high activity.[232] Besides, of S-CoP at EF is higher, suggesting a great number of electrons
the electrochemical-induced high-valent iron stabilizes cobalt in conduction band which are available for water adsorption.
in a low-valent state, enabling simultaneous enhancement Besides, Wang et al. confirm P is more easily oxidized than S
of activity and stability. CoP doped with Cu shows greatly in CoP0.5S0.5, where S substituents are protected by CoP matrix
enhanced intrinsic activity and conductivity compared with from electrochemical oxidation.[238] S cannot be oxidized until
pristine CoP.[233] Cu-CoP is transformed into Cu-CoOOH the surface P and Co have been fully oxidized. The oxidized S
during OER and acts as the real active sites. DFT calculations species, rather than the oxidized P species, can remain on the
show a remarkable decrease in the energy barrier for *O for- surface for a long period and are responsible for the enhanced
mation on Cu-CoOOH, which effectively reduces the energy OER activity. Then, the formed phosphate and sulfate anions
barrier of RDS and in turn facilitates O2 evolution. In addition, gradually dissolve into electrolyte and eventually cobalt (oxy)
the favored binding energies of OER intermediates are pre- hydroxide dominates the particle. Similarly, the charge transfer
sented on Fe doped Ni2P.[234] Postelectrolysis characterizations ability and catalytic activity of CoP@C@rGO can be tuned by
reveal that Fe doped Ni2P in situ converts into Fe/P-doped incorporating multiple heteroatoms.[239] B, N, and S tri-doped
γ-NiOOH during OER and serves as the actual active sites CoP@C@rGO possesses stronger charge transfer ability com-
with high activity. Ternary porous Ni0.75Fe0.25P2 nanosheets pared with single and double heteroatoms-doped CoP@C@
with outstanding OER activity firmly confirm the synergistic rGO, which can improve the active site accessibility and
effect between the intrinsic TMP and the in situ formed (oxy) facilitate the adsorption of intermediates.

Figure 15. a) SEM image of O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2 nanosheets. b) LSV polarization curves of O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2, Ni0.75Fe0.25Oy, Ni0.75Fe0.25(OH)y, and NiP2 in
1 m KOH. c) Atomic configurations of NiP2, O atoms adsorbed on NiP2, Ni(1−x)FexP2 and O atoms adsorbed on Ni(1−x)FexP2. d) Atomic configurations
of OH-, O-, and OOH-adsorbed O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2. OER free-energy diagrams e) at different potentials on O-Ni0.75Fe0.25P2 and f) at equilibrium potential
on different catalysts. Reproduced with permission.[235] Copyright 2018, John Wiley & Sons.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (28 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

 Inspired by the remarkably promotional effect of elemental N, P-doped carbon nanotube exhibits a low overpotential and
doping, cation and anion dual-doping strategy is appealing to excellent long-term stability for OER.[245] In virtue of different
engender dual synergetic effect for activity modulation. In this metal/phosphorus stoichiometric ratio, CoP and CoP2 have dif-
regard, O doped nickel iron phosphide nanocube arrays (Ni2P/ ferent functions and they can work synergistically to improve
(NiFe)2P(O) NAs) grown on Ni foam are rationally designed.[240] OER performance. DFT calculations demonstrate that OH− ion
Ni2P/(NiFe)2P(O) NAs can reach 10 mA cm−2 at an overpoten- is easily adsorbed on the surface of CoP to form *OH with a
tial of 150 mV, outperforming IrO2. Upon Fe locating near Ni, relatively small energy barrier compared with that of CoP2,
*OOH moves from Ni-Ni bridge in Ni2P to Fe site, and the while the energy barrier for *OOH formation on CoP2 is lower,
adsorption energies for all intermediates significantly decrease. showing the synergistic contributions from two components to
Further addition of O makes *OH, *O, and *OOH bind moder- reduce the overpotential and accelerate the reaction kinetics.
ately on O-doped NiFeP. However, no improvement is observed Electrode structure is vital to achieve remarkable catalytic
for O doped Ni2P. Therefore, the above results show the syn- performance, which determines the number of active sites
ergistic effect in Ni2P/(NiFe)2P(O) NAs where Fe provides new and affects mass transport. TMPs with novel morphology are
catalytic active site and O efficiently reduces the energy barriers in favor of active site exposure, electrolyte infiltration, and gas
for OER intermediates and products. Analogously, the activity release. Porous Fe-Co-P nanobox with unique hollow interior
of Co2P is modulated by Fe and O incorporation.[241] CoFePO is fabricated.[246] This hollow architecture affords short mass
displays high OER activity with an overpotential of 274.5 mV transfer pathways and abundant active sites. A template-
to achieve 10 mA cm−2, which outperforms CoPO (304.5 mV), assisted strategy followed by sequential etching is used to
CoO (346.5 mV), and IrO2 (351.5 mV). Thus, atomic modu- fabricate open and hierarchical Ni-Co-P hollow nanobricks
lation between cation and anion plays an important role in assembled by oriented 2D nanosheets.[247] Compared with
optimizing OER activity. Overall, cation and anion dual doping irregular Ni-Co-P nanosheet, this assembled nanobrick exhibits
provides a more effective way to modulate the electronic struc- much enhanced OER activity by virtue of large electrolyte-acces-
ture of TMPs, and it usually has a more remarkable influence sible surface and abundant mass diffusion pathways. Novel
on OER activity than single cation or anion doping. frame-like hollow nanostructured CoP with small pores on the
 Rational design of multicomponent heterostructure can roughened surface generates impressive activity for OER.[248]
boost electrocatalytic activity by strong interfacial interactions, The cavities at the eight corners provide sufficient channels for
which include electronic coupling effect and interfacial syner- electrolyte permeation and gas emission, while the hollow inte-
getic effect. Electronic coupling effect can trigger the redistribu- rior space enhances the space for catalysis. Transforming bulk
tion of electrons on the interface, while interfacial engineering TMPs into 2D TMPs is another structural engineering method.
can induce synergetic effect between heterocomponents. 3D Large-size, porous, and ultrathin NiCoP nanosheet shows thick-
Ni-V-based transition metal interstitial compound heterojunc- ness-dependent OER performance, whose thickness can be
tion supported on nickel foam as OER catalyst is demonstrated adjusted by tuning pH.[249] The best performing NiCoP with the
by Fu’s group.[242] The synergy of Ni2P-VP2 gives enhanced smallest thickness and high degree of crystalline yields a low
activity with an onset overpotential of 220 mV and a Tafel slope overpotential of mere 245 mV at 10 mA cm−2. It possesses a
of 49 mV dec−1. The good activity is ascribed to a much lower small charge-transfer resistance, large ECSA and TOF values,
adsorption energy difference between ∆G*O and ∆G*OH on the confirming better electron transfer ability and enhanced OER
heterointerface, which implies facilitated reaction kinetics. Fur- kinetics in the thinner NiCoP nanosheet. DFT calculations
thermore, well-defined heterointerface with good conductivity further verify an increase in charge density of DOS around EF
is beneficial for intermediate adsorption and electron transfer. for the thinner NiCoP, suggesting high intrinsic electrical con-
N doped trimetallic Ni-V-Fe phosphide with interlaced nano- ductivity. Moreover, large-size, porous, and ultrathin structure
structure exhibits excellent activity and stability.[243] The formed guarantees the full contact between electrolyte and catalyst and
heterointerfaces among Ni2P, Fe2P, and VP2 act as active reac- accelerates the release of gas bubbles. Apart from this ultrathin
tion centers. Plasma-enabled N doping further changes EF, NiCoP nanosheet, ultrathin FeP nanosheet[250] and ultrathin
giving rise to high conductivity. NiFeP nanosheet[251] also show promoted OER activity in virtue
 Phase modification by tuning metal/phosphorus stoichio- of large surface area, highly exposed active sites, and improved
metric ratio modulates the intrinsic properties of TMPs to charge/mass transfer. Tailoring lattice mismatch or strain
achieve promoted electrocatalytic activities. In view of this, two within catalyst has been applied to regulate the electrocatalytic
active nickel phosphides Ni12P5 and Ni2P are investigated.[244] activity toward OER. Co2P/Ni2P-Mo is prepared through slow
Ni12P5 with higher concentration of Ni can be oxidized to pro- dissolution of Ni substrate by Mo6+ etching and subsequent
duce more catalytically active NiOOH and Ni(OH)2, resulting deposition of Ni2+ during the growth of Co(OH)F, and lots of
in a superior OER performance. Compared with Ni12P5, Ni2P stacking faults and defects are created after phosphorization.[252]
shows a decrease in activity due to the lower amount of Ni Such stacking faults lead to the generation of tensile strain. The
centers. Besides, the cores of these phosphides are prone to tensile strain causes lattice expansion and a decreased over-
be slightly oxidized, forming a multiphase disordered phos- lapping of d-orbital of metal atoms, which in turn decreases
phide/phosphite. Therefore, higher concentration of Ni leads to the bandwidth and upshifts the d-band center energy, making
thicker and larger amorphous shell of NiOOH/Ni(OH)2, which less antibonding states higher than EF and strengthening the
promotes the formation of O–OH and deprotonation of –OOH binding energies of adsorbates. In another research by Felser
through electron-withdrawing inductive effect by forming et al., tensile strain is introduced in situ in the ab crystal plane
oxygen. Xu et al. report that CoP/CoP2 encapsulated within of FeP2.[253] Specifically, the utilization of carbon modification

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (29 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

drives the intrinsic strain in FeP2, resulting in a low overpoten- nitrides, bimetallic nitrides have more advantages. Ni3FeN
tial of only 240 mV for the strained FeP2. For pristine FeP2, the nanoparticles with particle size of 100 nm show remarkable
binding energy of *OH is 0.181 eV, suggesting weak adsorption. OER activity (Figure 16a).[262] The metallic character and con-
When FeP2 is modified by carbon, *OH adsorption is favored tinuous DOS of Ni3FeN generate enhanced charge-carrier trans-
due to the lattice mismatch between FeP2 and carbon, which port and excellent electrical conductivity (Figure 16b). Besides,
generates a tensile strain of up to 5%. DFT calculations show the enhanced H2O adsorption is observed on Ni3FeN, which
that by introducing strain, charge transfer from P to adsorbed improves electron transfer efficiency to H2O (Figure 16c). When
*OH makes P partially oxidized, which benefits *OH forma- Ni3FeN is supported on reduced graphene oxide (rGO), its
tion. Bader charge transfer analysis further confirms both surface electronic structure is tuned by electron transfer from
carbon support and tensile strain can lead to a redistribution of Ni3FeN to rGO, resulting in the optimal binding energies for
electrons between O and H in *OH, and an increased electron intermediates and excellent OER performance.[263] The OER-
density around O is in favor of *OH adsorption and fast OER inert Fe-N catalyst can convert into OER-active Co-Fe-N catalyst
kinetics. by controlled substitution of Fe with Co.[264] Co substitution can
 Substrate play an important role in OER. Suitable substrates modify both electronic structure and local binding environment
should have excellent conductivity, high mechanical strength, of Fe and a volcano-trend activity is obtained with Co0.15Fe0.85N0.5
corrosion resistance, and negligible activities. Many kinds of being the most efficient OER catalyst. The optimal Co-Fe sites
carbon have been chosen as substrates to support TMPs and in Co0.15Fe0.85N0.5 improve *O adsorption and facilitate OO
the coupling effect between them induces multiple effects on coupling and O2 formation. An elaborately designed hetero-
catalytic activity.[254] However, carbon substrate may undergo junction with finely tuned interface electronic structure can be
severe corrosion and decrease in Faradic efficiency at high posi- introduced into TMNs. Co-Ni3N heterostructure array shows
tive potentials. In view of this, CoP is uniformly dispersed on a significant enhancement in OER activity, which is 19 times
a novel TiOx substrate.[255] TiOx with abundant Ti3+ can greatly higher in TOF compared with Ni3N.[265] Electron transfer
increase charge carriers and electrical conductivity. Further- between these two different domains at the interface is pro-
more, strong charge redistribution appears on CoP/TiOx with moted, leading to boosted OER activity (Figure 16d). A self-sup-
electron accumulation and depletion near O and Co, which ported, hierarchical, porous N-doped carbon@CuCo2Nx/carbon
leads to a lower water adsorption energy on CoP/TiOx than on fiber exhibits excellent activity due to the highly exposed active
CoP. Besides, a desirable four-electron pathway to generate O2 sites and enhanced mass transport.[266] This hierarchical com-
is observed on CoP/TiOx, which means its robust stability and posite consists of Cu3N and Co5.47N, where the synergistic effect
the current mainly derived from water oxidation rather than between them strengthens the adsorption energies of inter-
other side reactions. Another example is V-doped CoP loaded mediates. Therefore, substitution of Co with Cu accompanied
on amorphous CeO2.[256] The synergy effect between V and with heterojunction formation is in favor of reaction kinetics,
CeO2 increases the electron density of Co at active sites, leading thereby contributing to the enhanced activity.
to lower H2O adsorption/dissociation energy and accelerated
reaction kinetics.
 Transition metal nitrides (TMNs) belong to the family of 3.5. Transition Metals/Alloys
interstitial compounds or alloys, consisting of parent metals
and nitrogen atoms integrated into interstitial sites.[257] The Transition metal-based electrocatalysts in pure metallic state
metal lattice expands and the distance between metal atoms are recently regarded as alternative choices for OER. They can
increases during the formation of interstitial TMNs, giving exist in the form of monometallic or alloy states. Ultrafine Co
rise to a contracted metal d-band.[258] Such d-band contraction nanoparticles embedded within 2D N-doped carbon nanosheets
causes a greater DOS near EF in comparison with that of parent and 3D N-doped hollow carbon polyhedra (Co@N-CS/N-
metal and results in attractive catalytic activities different from HCP@CC) are obtained by pyrolysis of 2D/3D ZIF-67@carbon
those of parent metals but similar to those of noble metals. cloth (Figure 17a).[267] Upon coupling C with Co, the energy bar-
Therefore, conductive TMNs with high resistance against rier for *OH adsorption is effectively decreased and the trans-
corrosion are promising catalysts for OER. Ni3N nanosheet formation from *O to *OOH becomes the RDS (Figure 17b).
is reported as an efficient OER catalyst.[259] Ni3N is intrinsi- Charge transfer from Co to carbon layer in the heterointerface
cally metallic and its carrier concentration can be remarkably improves COOH binding strength (Figure 17c). Doping N into
improved by dimensional confinement. The resultant Ni3N this composite further enhances COOH binding strength and
nanosheet with disordered structure provides more active sites reduces the energy barriers, demonstrating the synergistic effect
for OER, realizing enhanced OER activity compared with bulk among Co, N, and C. The same phenomenon can be observed
Ni3N. When reducing the dimension to 1D, CoN nanowires in Co-N-doped graphitic carbon (Co-NGC), where the electron
obtained by N2 plasma treatment exhibit an overpotential of transfer and redistribution between Co nanoparticle, graphitic
290 mV at 10 mA cm−2.[260] A layer of CoOOH is observed to carbon, and doped N species facilitate *OOH adsorption and pro-
form on the surface of CoN prior to OER and it is further oxi- mote OER activity.[268] Establishing a correlation between crystal
dized to form CoO2 as the real active site, which is a similar structure and electrocatalytic activity is crucial to rational design
phase transformation mechanism observed in TMPs. Similarly, of catalyst. Wang et al. fabricate Ni nanoparticles with similar
metallic Co4N porous nanowire also exhibits high OER activity, size but in different hexagonal close-packed phase (hcp-Ni@NC)
whose surface is first partially oxidized into CoOOH and fur- and face-centered cubic phase (fcc-Ni@NC) coated with N-doped
ther oxidized into CoO2.[261] Compared with monometallic carbon shells.[269] They discover dramatically enhanced OER

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (30 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 16. a) LSV polarization curves for OER. b) Total DOSs and PDOSs, and c) the adsorption energies of H2O on the surface of Ni3FeN, Ni3N,
NiO, and Fe2O3. Reproduced with permission.[262] Copyright 2016, John Wiley & Sons. d) Structure and charge density difference of N-Co-interface
formed between Co and Ni3N (left). Bader charges of Co and Ni near N-Co-interface and in bulk Co and Ni3N (right). Reproduced with permission.[265]
Copyright 2018, John Wiley & Sons.

performance of hcp-Ni@NC compared with that of fcc-Ni@ and proper layer distance benefits OER process. Analogously,
NC because of a more favorable ability of hcp-Ni@NC to tailor 2D mesoporous metallic Ir nanosheet with maximally exposed
the electronic properties of external NC shell to accelerate OER catalytically active sites exhibits superior activity in comparison
process with superior activity. For noble metal Ir, 3D Ir super- to other Ir-based bulk and nanomaterial catalysts.[271] Later, Li
structure consists of ultrathin Ir nanosheets delivers excellent et al. prepare amorphous Ir nanosheets with thickness less than
activity toward OER in both alkaline and acidic condition, which 10 nm, which achieve 2.5- and 17.6-fold improvement in mass
outperforms small Ir nanoparticle.[270] Such interesting super- activity over crystalline Ir nanosheets and commercial IrO2 in
structure with many accessible sites, maximized surface area, acidic solution.[272]

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (31 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 17. a) HRTEM image of Co@N-CS/N-HCP@CC and the corresponding lattice fringe of embedded Co. b) Free-energy diagrams for OER at
potential of 1.23 V and c) charge density redistributions on C, Co@C, and Co@N1C31. Reproduced with permission.[267] Copyright 2019, John Wiley &
Sons. d) Valence band spectra and e) the relationship between TOF and d-band center for different CoM catalysts. f) Schematic illustration of OER
process of CoM catalysts. Reproduced with permission.[275] Copyright 2019, John Wiley & Sons.

 Although these monometallic catalysts possess satisfactory electron structure of Ru, whose 4d-band shifts positively rela-
activity, most of them often cannot survive directly and will tive to that of Ru catalyst, suggesting a strengthened binding
undergo phase transformation in harsh electrolyte under high with oxygen intermediates after Cu doping. Specifically, the
anodic potential.[273] Therefore, they can be assembled into alloy water adsorption energy on RuCu is higher than on Ru, and the
states to enhance the stability. Several non-precious 3d transi- adsorption energy of *O and *OOH are much lower. Therefore,
tion metals are encapsulated within single layer graphene, and the strong electron transfer through RuCu bond effectively
the encapsulated FeNi alloy exhibits the best OER activity with promotes the OER activity. Apart from Ru, Cu can also optimize
high durability compared with single metallic Fe and Ni.[274] the intrinsic binding energy of Ir through alloying.[278] DFT
The calculated overpotential against the universal descriptor calculations show the binding energies of oxygen-involved spe-
∆G*O-∆G*OH exhibits a volcano-shape relation and FeNi@C cies of IrxCu follow the order of IrO2 > Ir4Cu > Ir3Cu > Ir2Cu,
locates nearest the peak among all catalysts. Alloying Co with indicating the binding energies are weakened with Cu incorpo-
other transition metals can achieve controllable tailoring of ration. Hollow Co-Pt nanoclusters embedded in mesoporous
d-band center (Figure 17d), which further influences the bal- N-doped carbon nanoflake arrays display outstanding activity
ance between adsorption of OH and desorption of O2.[275] The and long-term stability for OER.[279] Although Pt is not an active
change trend between d-band center and TOF describes a vol- candidate for OER, the presence of Pt in Co-Pt can affect the
cano curve for these alloys and the best is found for CoNi cata- local electron configuration of Co. The d-band center of Co in
lyst (Figure 17e). The upshift of d-band center can reduce the Co-Pt shifts positively which is in favor of forming stronger
electron filling of antibonding states and strengthen the inter- CoO bond. Thus, the strengthened binding with O facilitates
actions between alloy and OH, which boosts the intrinsic OER OH adsorption to form Co-OOH and further reaction with OH
activity. However, too strong binding between them hinders the to form O2. Similarly, Ir is considered intrinsically more active
desorption of O2, inevitably decreasing the activity. Therefore, than Rh. However, alloying a small amount of Rh with Ir to
CoNi alloy possesses an optimal d-band center achieving excel- form sub-10 nm Rh22Ir78 nanoparticles can achieve a maximum
lent activity (Figure 17f). Introducing a third metal can further activity of 1.17 A mgIr−1, which is a threefold enhancement rela-
modify the electronic environment. NiCoFe encapsulated by tive to that of pure Ir nanoparticles.[280] The enhancement is
N-doped carbon is fabricated with enhanced activity for OER.[276] owing to the synergy of ensemble and electronic effects within
O binding energy is strong on single metal Ni, Co, and Fe. When the alloy, where the binding energy difference between *O and
alloying elements together, the d-band center can be shifted *OOH is reduced, resulting in a faster kinetics. The above regu-
negatively, resulting in a weakened O binding energy. The rela- lation of electronic state of Ir by alloying Ir with other 3d tran-
tionship between the specific activity and d-band center exhibits sition metals is regarded as ligand effect, which is the key to
a volcano shape, where NiCoFe locates at the top. This indicates realize much-enhanced OER activity by effectively weakening
NiCoFe exhibits suitable O binding energy for outstanding OER the adsorption of reaction intermediates.[281]
activity. A donut-like RuCu nanoalloy catalyzes OER with an It is worth mentioning that high-entropy-alloy (HEA), as a
ultrahigh mass activity of ≈1000 A gRu−1, which is two orders special kind of alloy first reported in 2004,[282] shows great poten-
of magnitude larger than that of Ru and RuO2.[277] Cu plays an tial for OER. HEA is generally defined as alloy containing five or
important role in regulating the coordination environment and more near-equimolar principle components with a crystalline

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (32 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

solid-solution phase stabilized at an elevated mixing entropy. pathway to LOM can break the scaling relationship in conven-
Although the enthalpy of mixing always leads to phase separa- tional AEM to go beyond the activity limitation of volcano plot.
tion to form intermetallic microstructures, HEA can keep in a Then, several kinds of descriptors which greatly assist in cata-
high entropy state with a homogeneous distribution of atoms. lyst screen and optimization are summarized but they should
Compared with traditional metals and alloys, HEA combines the be selected based on the specific catalyst and properties. The
merits of each constitute element and the interactions of metal basic concepts of important parameters suggested as meas-
species within HEA provide great flexibility in modulating elec- urement criteria for OER are also mentioned and discussed.
tronic properties and catalytic activities. By virtue of the com- Then, recent advances in the innovation and development of
plex structure of HEA with random occupancies of elements transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts are reviewed. Var-
in lattice, HEA can be highly distorted with non-negligible ious transition metal oxides containing precious metal oxides,
residual strain within its lattice. Thus, the thermodynamically perovskite oxides, spinel oxides, and other oxides exhibit excel-
metastable atoms hold great promise as catalytic active sites. lent catalytic abilities for OER, and they are the most wildly
Nanoporous AlFeCoNiCr covered with naturally oxidized multi- used to study the effect of electronic state and structural prop-
component high-entropy oxide (HEO) is fabricated.[283] It shows erty on OER performance. However, they suffer from unsat-
a small overpotential of ≈240 mV to reach 10 mA cm−2. The isfactory electrical conductivity. Non-metal oxide systems with
Tafel slope of it is 52 mV dec−1, which is lower than that of ter- superior conductivity such as transition metal chalcogenides,
nary, quaternary, and some other quinary samples. Besides, it nitrides, and phosphides are explored, which show promising
exhibits enhanced stability compared with AlFeCoNi owing to potentials for OER. Notably, many researchers have demon-
the enhanced entropy effect. DFT calculations demonstrate the strated that an in situ formed thin oxides or (oxy)hydroxides
addition of Cr can modify the electronic structures of HEO and on the surfaces of these catalysts should be the real active
thus achieve higher OER activity compared with that of AlFeNi sites, while the catalysts themselves act as precatalysts and
and AlFeCoNi. Namely, the addition of Cr increases the electron conducting scaffolds. Thus, hydroxides and oxyhydroxides are
occupancy at EF, leading to an enhanced electrical conductivity. considered to be directly used as good alternatives for OER. In
In addition, the eg occupancy of Ni in HEO is optimized and addition, transition metal-based electrocatalysts in monome-
the strongest NiO bond covalency is observed, which are all tallic or alloy state also hold great potential for OER.
responsible for the remarkable OER activity. Furthermore, Based on the information offered by those aforementioned
Guo et al. select two HEAs, FeCoNiCrAl and FeNiMnCrCu, to researches, an efficient OER catalyst should have high elec-
demonstrate the composition of HEA can impact OER perfor- trical conductivity and possess moderate adsorption energy of
mance.[284] The lattice spacing of FeCoNiCrAl alloy is 2.35 Å, oxygen intermediates. To modify the structural and electronic
which is much close to the optimal lattice spacing (≈2.50 Å) for structure and improve the intrinsic activity of catalysts, sev-
O2 formation. Given that Cu has fully filled d orbitals, electrons eral design strategies are introduced. For catalysts that have
in Cu can transfer to the d-band of other transition metals to orientation-dependent performance, accurately controlling the
reduce d-vacancy number, which can optimize the adsorption/ exposure of specific facet can result in enhanced activity. Strain
desorption of reaction species. Besides, Mn possesses a larger regulation is also an approach which can be adopted to tune the
radius to enable an acceptable affinity toward O. Interestingly, surface chemistry and optimize the binding energy of oxygen
the intrinsic residual strain of FeNiMnCrCu is higher than that intermediates. Doping heteroatom is another effective method,
of FeCoNiCrAl, which is in favor of OER activation at lower over- which can tune the conductivity, intermediate adsorption
potential. Consequently, the OER performance of FeNiMnCrCu energy, metal–O covalency, and switch OER mechanism from
is significantly higher than that of FeCoNiCrAl. Apart from the AEM to LOM. Introducing vacancies into lattice can modify
crystalline HEA, disordered amorphous high-entropy metallic OER performance as well because incorporation of vacan-
glass CoFeLaNiPt nanoparticle synthesized by simple electro- cies may expose more active sites and regulate the electronic
deposition exhibits improved OER performance over unary Fe structures of electrocatalyst, and the localized electrons neigh-
and Ni.[285] We believe by precisely combining desirable electro- boring vacancy can become delocalized to facilitate electron
catalytic properties of transition metals, the application of HEA transport. Rational design of multicomponent heterostructure
for OER will be greatly promising. can boost electrocatalytic activity by strong interfacial interac-
 tions, which include electronic coupling effect and interfacial
 synergetic effect. Besides, novel morphology (such as porous
4. Conclusions and Future Perspectives structure and formation of ultrathin nanosheets with coordina-
 tively unsaturated active sites) is in favor of active site exposure,
OER, as an important half-reaction, is involved in many electro- electrolyte infiltration, and gas release, further promoting OER
chemical applications, such as water splitting and rechargeable performance. Moreover, some substrates are selected to support
metal–air batteries. Thus, developing effective electrocatalysts catalysts because they cannot only facilitate electron transfer
with low overpotential and high stability to improve the slow but also provide large specific surface area for exposing more
kinetics of OER is of vital importance. Understanding the catalytic active sites and enhance stability. According to our
mechanism of OER is the prerequisite for rational design of summary, there is no doubt that transition metal-based cata-
better catalysts. In this review, we first overview the funda- lysts are considered to be the most promising electrocatalysts
mental understanding of AEM and LOM mechanism. The for OER. Utilizing these rational design strategies will make
scaling relationship in AEM can help in quickly screening the transition metal-based catalysts show preeminent OER activity
catalyst, but it imposes a limit on OER activity. Switching OER and performance.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (33 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

 Although significant advances have been achieved in these recently.[289] By employing alcohols as probing reagents, oxy-
transition metal-based electrocatalysts to expedite OER, com- gen intermediates can be readily captured and the intermedi-
mercializing OER catalysts with high activity and stability ate bonding energy that governs the kinetics of OER can be
still remains a great challenge. More efforts should be made uncovered. Combination of in situ techniques, theoretical cal-
to further improve the performance and some perspectives culations, and electrochemical measurements can unravel re-
and future directions should be addressed on the basis of the action mechanism more effectively and guide rational design
following aspects: of superior OER electrocatalysts.
 4) Development of stable OER electrocatalysts for practical ap-
1) Improving intrinsic activity beyond the scaling relationship: plications: Beyond academic interest, transition metal-based
 The scaling relationship among OER intermediates in AEM OER catalysts can be applied for large-scale industrial use.[290]
 imposes a cap on OER activity, that the theoretical overpo- Typically, for most of the reported OER catalysts, their OER
 tential cannot go beyond 0.37 V. Although several strate- behaviors are examined in alkaline media. However, for prac-
 gies have been devised to break the scaling relationship for tical alkaline electrolyzers to achieve high energy efficiency,
 achieving better activity, such as stabilizing *OOH independ- they are always operated at elevated temperature (70–100 °C),
 ent of *OH and introducing proton acceptors to modify the pressure (>10 bar), and electrolyte concentrations (concen-
 reaction pathway, novel strategies are still needed to help trated KOH). It is still challenging for most developed tran-
 the stability of different intermediates vary independently. sition metal-based OER catalysts to maintain stability under
 Namely, efforts can be made on optimizing the free energy these extreme conditions. Moreover, the low ionic conductiv-
 barrier of every OER step to approach the equilibrium po- ity, sluggish OH− transport kinetics, and CO2 contamination
 tential of 1.23 V as much as possible. Besides, activation of problems in alkaline solutions hinder the development of
 LOM for direct OO coupling bypassing the generation of water splitting device. In contrast, the state-of-the-art proton
 *OOH intermediate is another powerful approach. However, exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzer always adopts a lo-
 the competition between conventional AEM and LOM, that cally acidic environment, which offers great advantages such
 is, between cation and anion redox chemistry on the cata- as lower ohmic losses, higher voltage efficiency, higher gas
 lyst surface is still a big challenge to be solved. Some other purity, and a more compact system. Unfortunately, most tran-
 recently reported methods, such as coupling catalysts to a sition metal-based OER catalysts cannot survive in such acidic
 non-thermal plasma to circumvent the scaling relationship electrolyte. Even though the benchmark IrO2 also faces the
 in ammonia synthesis[286] and varying the slope of the scaling same degradation problem due to the formation of soluble
 relationship by changing the parameters of oxygen reduction IrO42−. Therefore, there is an urgent need for highly efficient
 instead of modifying catalyst,[287] are worth learning in the and stable OER catalysts under acidic conditions for practical
 future design to break the scaling relationship in OER. applications. OER under neutral or near-neutral conditions
2) Development of universal descriptors: Actually, the structure- with no need for expensive membranes or separators is envi-
 activity descriptors proposed to date generally have poor pre- ronmentally friendly, which can solve safety issues and reduce
 dictive accuracies when used alone.[288] The poor predictions capital cost as well. Nevertheless, low ion concentration, in-
 are properly avoidable by considering at least one additional ferior electrical conductivity, and relatively slow reaction rate
 descriptor. Moreover, because the currently proposed descrip- in neutral electrolyte must be taken into consideration. Apart
 tors have limitation to describe activity trends for all catalysts, from the efficiency and stability of catalysts, inexpensive and
 developing descriptors which have higher accuracy and can simple catalyst synthesis process should be adopted to satisfy
 be used simultaneously in various types of catalysts and reac- the economical requirements. Overcoming these obstacles
 tion systems is needed. In this case, machine learning, high- will then boost the development of energy devices and provide
 throughput calculations, and combinatorial screening will sustainable solutions to energy collection and utilization.
 play important roles in identifying such descriptors. 5) Selection of stable and suitable substrates: Mixing transi-
3) In situ characterization: Most of the transition metal-based tion metal-based OER electrocatalysts with other conductive
 catalysts will undergo phase transformation under OER condi- substrates to form composites not only facilitates charge-
 tions, including structure, valence state, coordination environ- transfer behavior, but also improves stability. Suitable sub-
 ment, etc. Currently, most of the research works apply ex situ strates can also offer electronic catalyst-support interactions,
 techniques, which can only give the characterization results which further induce charge redistribution and enhance the
 before and after OER measurements. However, the structural performance of active sites. Carbon materials are the most
 evolution information during OER and the fundamental ori- widely used substrates. However, the vulnerability of carbon
 gin of self-reconstruction cannot be fully understood. There- makes it undergo electrochemical oxidation forming CO or
 fore, using in situ techniques to detect intermediates and CO2 at high overpotentials, leading to a decrease in catalyst
 their adsorption/desorption behaviors is of vital importance surface area, dissolution, and agglomeration of the supported
 to obtain direct experimental evidences for the proposed OER catalysts. Therefore, alternative non-carbon substrates with
 mechanisms. Luckily in recent years, more and more in situ high electrical conductivity and stability under harsh oxida-
 characterization techniques have been developed, such as in tive conditions are expected to be discovered urgently. If car-
 situ Raman spectroscopy, in situ XPS, in situ environmental bon substrates cannot be avoided, the reaction mechanism
 TEM, in situ differential electrochemical mass spectrometry, of OER should be investigated by RRDE to confirm the ob-
 etc. More excitingly, a general operando method for probing served current is mainly derived from water oxidation rather
 OER intermediates under real working conditions is developed than carbon corrosion.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (34 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

 In summary, great progress has been made in the develop- [22] N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen,
ment of transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts during Chem. Soc. Rev. 2017, 46, 337.
the past few decades. We believe that on the basis of profound [23] I. C. Man, H. Y. Su, F. Calle-Vallejo, H. A. Hansen, J. I. Martínez,
understanding of fundamental principles, further explorations N. G. Inoglu, J. Kitchin, T. F. Jaramillo, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl,
 ChemCatChem 2011, 3, 1159.
of transition metal-based OER electrocatalysts will be enriched.
 [24] H. Dau, C. Limberg, T. Reier, M. Risch, S. Roggan, P. Strasser,
 ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 724.
 [25] A. Damjanovic, B. Jovanovic, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1976, 123, 374.
Acknowledgements [26] T. Binninger, R. Mohamed, K. Waltar, E. Fabbri, P. Levecque,
 R. Kotz, T. J. Schmidt, Sci. Rep. 2015, 5, 12167.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation [27] A. Grimaud, A. Demortière, M. Saubanère, W. Dachraoui,
of China (51825201) and the National Key Research and Development M. Duchamp, M.-L. Doublet, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Energy 2016, 2,
Program of China (2019YFB1505001). 16189.
 [28] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y.-L. Lee,
 L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat.
Conflict of Interest Chem. 2017, 9, 457.
 [29] S. Geiger, O. Kasian, M. Ledendecker, E. Pizzutilo, A. M. Mingers,
The authors declare no conflict of interest. W. T. Fu, O. Diaz-Morales, Z. Li, T. Oellers, L. Fruchter, A. Ludwig,
 K. J. J. Mayrhofer, M. T. M. Koper, S. Cherevko, Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 508.
 [30] S. Lee, K. Banjac, M. Lingenfelder, X. Hu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.
 2019, 58, 10295.
Keywords [31] Y. Pan, X. Xu, Y. Zhong, L. Ge, Y. Chen, J. M. Veder, D. Guan,
electrocatalysis, oxygen evolution, transition metal R. O’Hayre, M. Li, G. Wang, H. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, Nat.
 Commun. 2020, 11, 2002.
 Received: January 10, 2021 [32] A. Zagalskaya, V. Alexandrov, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 3650.
 Revised: April 6, 2021 [33] a) S.-F. Hung, Y.-Y. Hsu, C.-J. Chang, C.-S. Hsu, N.-T. Suen,
 Published online: June 10, 2021 T.-S. Chan, H. M. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1701686;
 b) X. Wang, P. Sun, H. Lu, K. Tang, Q. Li, C. Wang, Z. Mao,
 T. Ali, C. Yan, Small 2019, 15, 1804886; c) R. Wei, X. Bu, W. Gao,
 R. A. B. Villaos, G. Macam, Z. Q. Huang, C. Lan, F. C. Chuang,
 [1] C. Hu, L. Zhang, J. Gong, Energy Environ. Sci. 2019, 12, 2620. Y. Qu, J. C. Ho, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 33012;
 [2] W. T. Hong, M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, A. Grimaud, J. Suntivich, d) M. Cui, X. Ding, X. Huang, Z. Shen, T.-L. Lee, F. E. Oropeza,
 Y. Shao-Horn, Energy Environ. Sci. 2015, 8, 1404. J. P. Hofmann, E. J. M. Hensen, K. H. L. Zhang, Chem. Mater. 2019,
 [3] J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, 31, 7618; e) Q. Wang, X. Xue, Y. Lei, Y. Wang, Y. Feng, X. Xiong,
 Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 2196. D. Wang, Y. Li, Small 2020, 16, 2001571.
 [4] H.-F. Wang, Q. Xu, Matter 2019, 1, 565. [34] P. Bothra, S. K. Pati, ACS Energy Lett. 2016, 1, 858.
 [5] M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J.-J. Zou, Z. L. Wang, [35] a) Z. Wang, H. Liu, R. Ge, X. Ren, J. Ren, D. Yang, L. Zhang,
 Nano Energy 2017, 37, 136. X. Sun, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 2236; b) Z. Xiao, Y. Wang, Y.-C. Huang,
 [6] Q. Shi, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2019, 48, 3181. Z. Wei, C.-L. Dong, J. Ma, S. Shen, Y. Li, S. Wang, Energy Environ.
 [7] R. Kötz, H. J. Lewerenz, S. Stucki, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1983, 130, Sci. 2017, 10, 2563.
 825. [36] Z. Wang, W. Xu, X. Chen, Y. Peng, Y. Song, C. Lv, H. Liu, J. Sun,
 [8] Z. P. Wu, X. F. Lu, S. Q. Zang, X. W. Lou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, D. Yuan, X. Li, X. Guo, D. Yang, L. Zhang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019,
 30, 1910274. 29, 1902875.
 [9] F. Song, L. Bai, A. Moysiadou, S. Lee, C. Hu, L. Liardet, X. Hu, [37] a) S. Peng, F. Gong, L. Li, D. Yu, D. Ji, T. Zhang, Z. Hu, Z. Zhang,
 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 7748. S. Chou, Y. Du, S. Ramakrishna, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 13644;
 [10] J. S. Kim, B. Kim, H. Kim, K. Kang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, b) J. Bao, X. Zhang, B. Fan, J. Zhang, M. Zhou, W. Yang, X. Hu,
 1702774. H. Wang, B. Pan, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 7399;
 [11] G. Chen, H. Wan, W. Ma, N. Zhang, Y. Cao, X. Liu, J. Wang, R. Ma, c) Z. Cai, Y. Bi, E. Hu, W. Liu, N. Dwarica, Y. Tian, X. Li, Y. Kuang,
 Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 10, 1902535. Y. Li, X.-Q. Yang, H. Wang, X. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8,
 [12] Y. Zhang, Q. Zhou, J. Zhu, Q. Yan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, Adv. Funct. 1701694; d) Z. Li, Y. Zhang, Y. Feng, C. Q. Cheng, K. W. Qiu,
 Mater. 2017, 27, 1702317. C. K. Dong, H. Liu, X. W. Du, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1903444.
 [13] X. Y. Yu, X. W. Lou, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1701592. [38] L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, Adv. Mater.
 [14] N. Han, P. Liu, J. Jiang, L. Ai, Z. Shao, S. Liu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 29, 1606793.
 2018, 6, 19912. [39] a) R. Zhang, Y.-C. Zhang, L. Pan, G.-Q. Shen, N. Mahmood,
 [15] Y. Li, Z. Dong, L. Jiao, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 10, 1902104. Y.-H. Ma, Y. Shi, W. Jia, L. Wang, X. Zhang, W. Xu, J.-J. Zou, ACS
 [16] J. F. Callejas, C. G. Read, C. W. Roske, N. S. Lewis, R. E. Schaak, Catal. 2018, 8, 3803; b) H. J. Lee, S. Back, J. H. Lee, S. H. Choi,
 Chem. Mater. 2016, 28, 6017. Y. Jung, J. W. Choi, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 7099.
 [17] L. Li, P. Wang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 3072. [40] J. Hwang, Z. Feng, N. Charles, X. R. Wang, D. Lee,
 [18] E. Fabbri, T. J. Schmidt, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 9765. K. A. Stoerzinger, S. Muy, R. R. Rao, D. Lee, R. Jacobs, D. Morgan,
 [19] J. Shan, Y. Zheng, B. Shi, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, ACS Energy Lett. Y. Shao-Horn, Mater. Today 2019, 31, 100.
 2019, 4, 2719. [41] K. A. Stoerzinger, W. S. Choi, H. Jeen, H. N. Lee, Y. Shao-Horn,
 [20] Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, S. Dou, X. Li, J. Wang, X. Wang, Matter 2019, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2015, 6, 487.
 1, 1494. [42] D. Pesquera, G. Herranz, A. Barla, E. Pellegrin, F. Bondino,
 [21] Z. Lei, T. Wang, B. Zhao, W. Cai, Y. Liu, S. Jiao, Q. Li, R. Cao, E. Magnano, F. Sanchez, J. Fontcuberta, Nat. Commun. 2012, 3,
 M. Liu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 10, 2000478. 1189.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (35 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

 [43] J. R. Petrie, V. R. Cooper, J. W. Freeland, T. L. Meyer, Z. Zhang, [73] R. R. Rao, M. J. Kolb, L. Giordano, A. F. Pedersen, Y. Katayama,
 D. A. Lutterman, H. N. Lee, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 2488. J. Hwang, A. Mehta, H. You, J. R. Lunger, H. Zhou, N. B. Halck,
 [44] X. Cui, P. Ren, C. Ma, J. Zhao, R. Chen, S. Chen, N. P. Rajan, H. Li, T. Vegge, I. Chorkendorff, I. E. L. Stephens, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat.
 L. Yu, Z. Tian, D. Deng, Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, 1908126. Catal. 2020, 3, 516.
 [45] Y. Yang, Y. Kang, H. Zhao, X. Dai, M. Cui, X. Luan, X. Zhang, [74] K. A. Stoerzinger, L. Qiao, M. D. Biegalski, Y. Shao-Horn, J. Phys.
 F. Nie, Z. Ren, W. Song, Small 2020, 16, 1905083. Chem. Lett. 2014, 5, 1636.
 [46] J. Sun, N. Guo, Z. Shao, K. Huang, Y. Li, F. He, Q. Wang, Adv. [75] W. Sun, Z. Wang, W. Q. Zaman, Z. Zhou, L. Cao, X. Q. Gong,
 Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1800980. J. Yang, Chem. Commun. 2018, 54, 996.
 [47] Y. Dou, C. T. He, L. Zhang, H. Yin, M. Al-Mamun, J. Ma, H. Zhao, [76] G. Meng, W. Sun, A. A. Mon, X. Wu, L. Xia, A. Han, Y. Wang,
 Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 1664. Z. Zhuang, J. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Li, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1903616.
 [48] B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, Adv. Catal. 2000, 45, 71. [77] G. Buvat, M. J. Eslamibidgoli, A. H. Youssef, S. Garbarino,
 [49] J. K. Norskov, T. Bligaard, J. Rossmeisl, C. H. Christensen, Nat. A. Ruediger, M. Eikerling, D. Guay, ACS Catal. 2019, 10, 806.
 Chem. 2009, 1, 37. [78] Z. Li, S. Wang, Y. Tian, B. Li, H. J. Yan, S. Zhang, Z. Liu, Q. Zhang,
 [50] K. Yang, P. Xu, Z. Lin, Y. Yang, P. Jiang, C. Wang, S. Liu, S. Gong, Y. Lin, L. Chen, Chem. Commun. 2020, 56, 1749.
 L. Hu, Q. Chen, Small 2018, 14, 1803009. [79] W. Sun, Y. Song, X. Q. Gong, L. M. Cao, J. Yang, Chem. Sci. 2015,
 [51] a) J. Liu, H. Liu, H. Chen, X. Du, B. Zhang, Z. Hong, S. Sun, 6, 4993.
 W. Wang, Adv. Sci. 2020, 7, 1901614; b) C. Wei, Z. Feng, [80] W. Q. Zaman, Z. Wang, W. Sun, Z. Zhou, M. Tariq, L. Cao,
 G. G. Scherer, J. Barber, Y. Shao-Horn, Z. J. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2017, X.-Q. Gong, J. Yang, ACS Energy Lett. 2017, 2, 2786.
 29, 1606800. [81] R. Kötz, H. Neff, S. Stucki, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1984, 131, 72.
 [52] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, [82] H. S. Oh, H. N. Nong, T. Reier, A. Bergmann, M. Gliech, J. Ferreira
 Y. Shao-Horn, Science 2011, 334, 1383. de Araujo, E. Willinger, R. Schlogl, D. Teschner, P. Strasser, J. Am.
 [53] S. Zhou, X. Miao, X. Zhao, C. Ma, Y. Qiu, Z. Hu, J. Zhao, L. Shi, Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 12552.
 J. Zeng, Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 11510. [83] E. Oakton, D. Lebedev, M. Povia, D. F. Abbott, E. Fabbri,
 [54] Y. Duan, S. Sun, S. Xi, X. Ren, Y. Zhou, G. Zhang, H. Yang, Y. Du, A. Fedorov, M. Nachtegaal, C. Copéret, T. J. Schmidt, ACS Catal.
 Z. J. Xu, Chem. Mater. 2017, 29, 10534. 2017, 7, 2346.
 [55] Y. Zhou, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, B. Chen, Y. Du, A. C. Fisher, [84] G. Rose, Ann. Phys. 1839, 124, 551.
 F. Cheng, X. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, [85] C. Sun, J. A. Alonso, J. Bian, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 11, 2000459.
 1802912. [86] J. S. Yoo, X. Rong, Y. Liu, A. M. Kolpak, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 4628.
 [56] Y.-L. Lee, J. Kleis, J. Rossmeisl, Y. Shao-Horn, D. Morgan, Energy [87] L. Wang, K. A. Stoerzinger, L. Chang, J. Zhao, Y. Li, C. S. Tang,
 Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 3966. X. Yin, M. E. Bowden, Z. Yang, H. Guo, L. You, R. Guo, J. Wang,
 [57] A. Fujimori, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1992, 53, 1595. K. Ibrahim, J. Chen, A. Rusydi, J. Wang, S. A. Chambers, Y. Du,
 [58] A. Grimaud, K. J. May, C. E. Carlton, Y.-L. Lee, M. Risch, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1803712.
 W. T. Hong, J. Zhou, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat. Commun. 2013, 4, 2439. [88] M. H. Seo, H. W. Park, D. U. Lee, M. G. Park, Z. Chen, ACS Catal.
 [59] Y. Zhu, H. A. Tahini, Z. Hu, Z. G. Chen, W. Zhou, A. C. Komarek, 2015, 5, 4337.
 Q. Lin, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, Y. Zhong, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, [89] J. T. Mefford, X. Rong, A. M. Abakumov, W. G. Hardin, S. Dai,
 S. C. Smith, H. Wang, M. Liu, Z. Shao, Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, 1905025. A. M. Kolpak, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, Nat. Commun. 2016,
 [60] H. B. Tao, L. Fang, J. Chen, H. B. Yang, J. Gao, J. Miao, S. Chen, 7, 11053.
 B. Liu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 9978. [90] X. Rong, J. Parolin, A. M. Kolpak, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 1153.
 [61] S. Trasatti, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1980, 111, 125. [91] R. P. Forslund, W. G. Hardin, X. Rong, A. M. Abakumov,
 [62] C. Wei, Z. J. Xu, Small Methods 2018, 2, 1800168. D. Filimonov, C. T. Alexander, J. T. Mefford, H. Iyer, A. M. Kolpak,
 [63] H. J. Song, H. Yoon, B. Ju, G.-H. Lee, D.-W. Kim, Adv. Energy K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 3150.
 Mater. 2018, 8, 1802319. [92] S. H. Chang, N. Danilovic, K. C. Chang, R. Subbaraman,
 [64] S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Karthick, S. Sam Sankar, K. Sangeetha, A. P. Paulikas, D. D. Fong, M. J. Highland, P. M. Baldo,
 P. E. Karthik, S. Kundu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 744. V. R. Stamenkovic, J. W. Freeland, J. A. Eastman, N. M. Markovic,
 [65] E. Fabbri, A. Habereder, K. Waltar, R. Kötz, T. J. Schmidt, Catal. Sci. Nat. Commun. 2014, 5, 4191.
 Technol. 2014, 4, 3800. [93] M. Retuerto, L. Pascual, F. Calle-Vallejo, P. Ferrer, D. Gianolio,
 [66] H. Vrubel, T. Moehl, M. Gratzel, X. Hu, Chem. Commun. 2013, 49, A. G. Pereira, A. Garcia, J. Torrero, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz,
 8985. P. Bencok, M. A. Pena, J. L. G. Fierro, S. Rojas, Nat. Commun.
 [67] a) T. Naresh Kumar, S. Sivabalan, N. Chandrasekaran, K. L. Phani, 2019, 10, 2041.
 Chem. Commun. 2015, 51, 1922; b) S. Anantharaj, P. E. Karthik, [94] J. Liu, E. Jia, L. Wang, K. A. Stoerzinger, H. Zhou, C. S. Tang, X. Yin,
 S. Kundu, Catal. Sci. Technol. 2017, 7, 882. X. He, E. Bousquet, M. E. Bowden, A. T. S. Wee, S. A. Chambers,
 [68] a) M. Gao, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, Q. Fang, S. Gu, J. Jiang, Y. Yan, Y. Du, Adv. Sci. 2019, 6, 1901073.
 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 7077; b) S. Anantharaj, P. E. Karthik, [95] Q. Lin, Y. Zhu, Z. Hu, Y. Yin, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, X. Zhang,
 B. Subramanian, S. Kundu, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 4660. Z. Shao, H. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 6480.
 [69] a) S. Anantharaj, M. Jayachandran, S. Kundu, Chem. Sci. 2016, 7, [96] L. Shi, H. Chen, X. Liang, Y. Liu, X. Zou, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020,
 3188; b) S. Anantharaj, P. E. Karthik, S. Kundu, J. Mater. Chem. A 8, 218.
 2015, 3, 24463. [97] X. Miao, L. Zhang, L. Wu, Z. Hu, L. Shi, S. Zhou, Nat. Commun.
 [70] S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Sakthikumar, K. Karthick, S. Mishra, 2019, 10, 3809.
 S. Kundu, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 8069. [98] S. Hirai, K. Morita, K. Yasuoka, T. Shibuya, Y. Tojo, Y. Kamihara,
 [71] D. Voiry, M. Chhowalla, Y. Gogotsi, N. A. Kotov, Y. Li, R. M. Penner, A. Miura, H. Suzuki, T. Ohno, T. Matsuda, S. Yagi, J. Mater. Chem.
 R. E. Schaak, P. S. Weiss, ACS Nano 2018, 12, 9635. A 2018, 6, 15102.
 [72] K. A. Stoerzinger, O. Diaz-Morales, M. Kolb, R. R. Rao, [99] D. A. Kuznetsov, M. A. Naeem, P. V. Kumar, P. M. Abdala,
 R. Frydendal, L. Qiao, X. R. Wang, N. B. Halck, J. Rossmeisl, A. Fedorov, C. R. Muller, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 7883.
 H. A. Hansen, T. Vegge, I. E. L. Stephens, M. T. M. Koper, [100] C. Hu, X. Wang, T. Yao, T. Gao, J. Han, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, P. Xu,
 Y. Shao-Horn, ACS Energy Lett. 2017, 2, 876. B. Song, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1902449.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (36 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

[101] Y. Zhu, L. Zhang, B. Zhao, H. Chen, X. Liu, R. Zhao, X. Wang, [128] X. Yu, Z.-Y. Yu, X.-L. Zhang, P. Li, B. Sun, X. Gao, K. Yan, H. Liu,
 J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1901783. Y. Duan, M.-R. Gao, G. Wang, S.-H. Yu, Nano Energy 2020, 71,
[102] X. Miao, L. Wu, Y. Lin, X. Yuan, J. Zhao, W. Yan, S. Zhou, L. Shi, 104652.
 Chem. Commun. 2019, 55, 1442. [129] Y. He, X.-P. Han, D.-W. Rao, Y.-D. Zhang, J. Zhao, C. Zhong,
[103] J. Bak, H. Bin Bae, S. Y. Chung, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 2713. W.-B. Hu, W.-F. Wei, Y.-D. Deng, Nano Energy 2019, 61, 267.
[104] J. Wang, Y. Gao, D. Chen, J. Liu, Z. Zhang, Z. Shao, F. Ciucci, ACS [130] Y. Wang, K. Jiang, H. Zhang, T. Zhou, J. Wang, W. Wei, Z. Yang,
 Catal. 2017, 8, 364. X. Sun, W. B. Cai, G. Zheng, Adv. Sci. 2015, 2, 1500003.
[105] X. Liu, L. Zhang, Y. Zheng, Z. Guo, Y. Zhu, H. Chen, F. Li, P. Liu, [131] B. Seo, Y. J. Sa, J. Woo, K. Kwon, J. Park, T. J. Shin, H. Y. Jeong,
 B. Yu, X. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, Adv. Sci. 2019, 6, 1801898. S. H. Joo, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 4347.
[106] J. R. Petrie, H. Jeen, S. C. Barron, T. L. Meyer, H. N. Lee, J. Am. [132] L. An, B. Huang, Y. Zhang, R. Wang, N. Zhang, T. Dai, P. Xi,
 Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 7252. C. H. Yan, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 9459.
[107] S. Sun, Y. Sun, Y. Zhou, S. Xi, X. Ren, B. Huang, H. Liao, [133] T. Tian, H. Gao, X. Zhou, L. Zheng, J. Wu, K. Li, Y. Ding, ACS
 L. P. Wang, Y. Du, Z. J. Xu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 6042. Energy Lett. 2018, 3, 2150.
[108] Z. Liu, G. Wang, X. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, S. Zang, S. Wang, Angew. [134] G. Fu, X. Wen, S. Xi, Z. Chen, W. Li, J.-Y. Zhang, A. Tadich, R. Wu,
 Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 4736. D.-C. Qi, Y. Du, J. Cheng, K. H. L. Zhang, Chem. Mater. 2018,
[109] L. Xu, Z. Wang, J. Wang, Z. Xiao, X. Huang, Z. Liu, S. Wang, Nano- 31, 419.
 technology 2017, 28, 165402. [135] R. Ji, F. Zhang, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, Z. Li, Z. Liu, S. Lu, Y. Wang, H. Dong,
[110] S. Ye, Y. Zhang, W. Xiong, T. Xu, P. Liao, P. Zhang, X. Ren, C. He, P. Liu, X. Wu, H. Jin, Nanoscale 2019, 11, 22734.
 L. Zheng, X. Ouyang, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, Nanoscale 2020, 12, 11079. [136] C. Liao, B. Yang, N. Zhang, M. Liu, G. Chen, X. Jiang, G. Chen,
 [111] Z. Chen, C. X. Kronawitter, B. E. Koel, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. J. Yang, X. Liu, T. S. Chan, Y. J. Lu, R. Ma, W. Zhou, Adv. Funct.
 2015, 17, 29387. Mater. 2019, 29, 1904020.
[112] D. He, X. Song, W. Li, C. Tang, J. Liu, Z. Ke, C. Jiang, X. Xiao, [137] K. L. Nardi, N. Yang, C. F. Dickens, A. L. Strickler, S. F. Bent, Adv.
 Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 6929. Energy Mater. 2015, 5, 1500412.
 [113] Y. Dou, T. Liao, Z. Ma, D. Tian, Q. Liu, F. Xiao, Z. Sun, J. Ho Kim, [138] F. Le Formal, E. Pastor, S. D. Tilley, C. A. Mesa, S. R. Pendlebury,
 S. Xue Dou, Nano Energy 2016, 30, 267. M. Gratzel, J. R. Durrant, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 6629.
 [114] S.-H. Hsu, S.-F. Hung, H.-Y. Wang, F.-X. Xiao, L. Zhang, H. Yang, [139] B. Mohanty, Y. Wei, M. Ghorbani-Asl, A. V. Krasheninnikov,
 H. M. Chen, J.-M. Lee, B. Liu, Small Methods 2018, 2, 1800001. P. Rajput, B. K. Jena, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 6709.
[115] a) A. Bergmann, E. Martinez-Moreno, D. Teschner, P. Chernev, [140] H. C. Nguyën, F. A. Garcés-Pineda, M. de Fez-Febré,
 M. Gliech, J. F. de Araujo, T. Reier, H. Dau, P. Strasser, Nat. J. R. Galán-Mascarós, N. López, Chem. Sci. 2020, 11, 2464.
 Commun. 2015, 6, 8625; b) N. Ortiz Pena, D. Ihiawakrim, M. Han, [141] H. Wu, T. Yang, Y. Du, L. Shen, G. W. Ho, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30,
 B. Lassalle-Kaiser, S. Carenco, C. Sanchez, C. Laberty-Robert, 1804341.
 D. Portehault, O. Ersen, ACS Nano 2019, 13, 11372. [142] B. H. R. Suryanto, Y. Wang, R. K. Hocking, W. Adamson, C. Zhao,
[116] M. Li, Y. Xiong, X. Liu, X. Bo, Y. Zhang, C. Han, L. Guo, Nanoscale Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 5599.
 2015, 7, 8920. [143] A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2015, 8, 776.
 [117] X. F. Lu, L. F. Gu, J. W. Wang, J. X. Wu, P. Q. Liao, G. R. Li, Adv. [144] H. Kakizaki, H. Ooka, T. Hayashi, A. Yamaguchi, N. Bonnet-Mercier,
 Mater. 2017, 29, 1604437. K. Hashimoto, R. Nakamura, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1706319.
[118] H. Fang, T. Huang, D. Liang, M. Qiu, Y. Sun, S. Yao, J. Yu, [145] Q. Kang, L. Vernisse, R. C. Remsing, A. C. Thenuwara,
 M. M. Dinesh, Z. Guo, Y. Xia, S. Mao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, S. L. Shumlas, I. G. McKendry, M. L. Klein, E. Borguet, M. J. Zdilla,
 7328. D. R. Strongin, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 1863.
[119] W. Zong, D. Rao, H. Guo, Y. Ouyang, Y. E. Miao, W. Wang, J. Wang, [146] H. Wang, J. Zhang, X. Hang, X. Zhang, J. Xie, B. Pan, Y. Xie, Angew.
 F. Lai, T. Liu, Nanoscale 2020, 12, 10977. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 1195.
[120] Z. Peng, D. Jia, A. M. Al-Enizi, A. A. Elzatahry, G. Zheng, Adv. [147] Y. Zhao, C. Chang, F. Teng, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, R. Shi,
 Energy Mater. 2015, 5, 1402031. G. I. N. Waterhouse, W. Huang, T. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017,
[121] X. R. Wang, J. Y. Liu, Z. W. Liu, W. C. Wang, J. Luo, X. P. Han, 7, 1700005.
 X. W. Du, S. Z. Qiao, J. Yang, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1800005. [148] Y. Zhao, J. Zhang, W. Wu, X. Guo, P. Xiong, H. Liu, G. Wang, Nano
[122] J. Li, D. Chu, H. Dong, D. R. Baker, R. Jiang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. Energy 2018, 54, 129.
 2020, 142, 50. [149] A. Li, H. Ooka, N. Bonnet, T. Hayashi, Y. Sun, Q. Jiang, C. Li,
[123] D. Kong, Y. Wang, S. Huang, J. Hu, Y. V. Lim, B. Liu, S. Fan, Y. Shi, H. Han, R. Nakamura, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 5054.
 H. Y. Yang, Energy Storage Mater. 2019, 23, 653. [150] a) G. T. K. K. Gunasooriya, J. K. Nørskov, ACS Energy Lett. 2020,
[124] Y. Duan, S. Sun, Y. Sun, S. Xi, X. Chi, Q. Zhang, X. Ren, J. Wang, 5, 3778; b) M. Blasco-Ahicart, J. Soriano-Lopez, J. J. Carbo,
 S. J. H. Ong, Y. Du, L. Gu, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2019, J. M. Poblet, J. R. Galan-Mascaros, Nat. Chem. 2018, 10, 24.
 31, 1807898. [151] M. Chatti, J. L. Gardiner, M. Fournier, B. Johannessen, T. Williams,
[125] a) C. S. Hsu, N. T. Suen, Y. Y. Hsu, H. Y. Lin, C. W. Tung, Y. F. Liao, T. R. Gengenbach, N. Pai, C. Nguyen, D. R. MacFarlane,
 T. S. Chan, H. S. Sheu, S. Y. Chen, H. M. Chen, Phys. Chem. Chem. R. K. Hocking, A. N. Simonov, Nat. Catal. 2019, 2, 457.
 Phys. 2017, 19, 8681; b) L. Li, Z. Hu, L. Tao, J. Xu, J. C. Yu, ACS Appl. [152] X. Kong, C. Zhang, S. Y. Hwang, Q. Chen, Z. Peng, Small 2017, 13,
 Energy Mater. 2020, 3, 3071; c) S. Liu, H. Cheng, K. Xu, H. Ding, 1700334.
 J. Zhou, B. Liu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 4, [153] J. Yan, L. Kong, Y. Ji, J. White, Y. Li, J. Zhang, P. An, S. Liu, S. T. Lee,
 423; d) L. Calvillo, F. Carraro, O. Vozniuk, V. Celorrio, L. Nodari, T. Ma, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 2149.
 A. E. Russell, D. Debellis, D. Fermin, F. Cavani, S. Agnoli, [154] a) S. Wang, X. Ge, C. Lv, C. Hu, H. Guan, J. Wu, Z. Wang, X. Yang,
 G. Granozzi, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 7034; e) Y. Lyu, J. Zheng, Y. Shi, J. Song, Z. Zhang, A. Watanabe, J. Cai, Nanoscale 2020,
 Z. Xiao, S. Zhao, S. P. Jiang, S. Wang, Small 2020, 16, 1906867. 12, 9557; b) N. Yu, W. Cao, M. Huttula, Y. Kayser, P. Hoenicke,
[126] T. Ling, D. Y. Yan, Y. Jiao, H. Wang, Y. Zheng, X. Zheng, J. Mao, B. Beckhoff, F. Lai, R. Dong, H. Sun, B. Geng, Appl. Catal., B 2020,
 X. W. Du, Z. Hu, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 261, 118193; c) Y. Wang, C. Yang, Y. Huang, Z. Li, Z. Liang, G. Cao,
 12876. J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 6699; d) H. Jin, S. Mao, G. Zhan, F. Xu,
[127] K. Zhang, G. Zhang, J. Qu, H. Liu, Small 2018, 14, 1802760. X. Bao, Y. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 1078.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (37 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

[155] Q. Zhao, J. Yang, M. Liu, R. Wang, G. Zhang, H. Wang, H. Tang, [179] M. B. Stevens, C. D. M. Trang, L. J. Enman, J. Deng,
 C. Liu, Z. Mei, H. Chen, F. Pan, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 5621. S. W. Boettcher, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 11361.
[156] S. Y. Lim, S. Park, S. W. Im, H. Ha, H. Seo, K. T. Nam, ACS Catal. [180] N. Wang, Z. Cao, X. Zheng, B. Zhang, S. M. Kozlov, P. Chen,
 2019, 10, 235. C. Zou, X. Kong, Y. Wen, M. Liu, Y. Zhou, C. T. Dinh, L. Zheng,
[157] X. P. Wang, H. J. Wu, S. B. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, J. Zhang, Z. H. Wu, H. Peng, Y. Zhao, L. Cavallo, X. Zhang, E. H. Sargent, Adv. Mater.
 J. O. Wang, T. D. Hu, L. M. Liu, Y. Han, S. W. Chee, S. C. Ning, 2020, 32, 1906806.
 U. Mirsaidov, Z. B. Wang, Y. W. Zhang, A. Borgna, J. Wang, [181] J.-X. Feng, H. Xu, Y.-T. Dong, S.-H. Ye, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, Angew.
 Y. H. Du, Z. G. Yu, S. J. Pennycook, J. M. Xue, Energy Environ. Sci. Chem., Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 3694.
 2020, 13, 229. [182] B. Liu, Y. Wang, H.-Q. Peng, R. Yang, Z. Jiang, X. Zhou, C.-S. Lee,
[158] L. Huang, J. Jiang, L. Ai, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 7059. H. Zhao, W. Zhang, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1803144.
[159] a) T. Tang, W.-J. Jiang, L.-P. Yuan, S. Niu, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, [183] X. Han, C. Yu, J. Yang, X. Song, C. Zhao, S. Li, Y. Zhang, H. Huang,
 J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 11573; b) T. Tang, W.-J. Jiang, S. Niu, Z. Liu, H. Huang, X. Tan, J. Qiu, Small 2019, 15, 1901015.
 N. Liu, H. Luo, Q. Zhang, W. Wen, Y.-Y. Chen, L.-B. Huang, F. Gao, [184] T. H. Lee, S. A. Lee, H. Park, M.-J. Choi, D. Lee, H. W. Jang, ACS
 J.-S. Hu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1704594; c) L. Wang, H. Chen, Appl. Energy Mater. 2020, 3, 1634.
 Q. Daniel, L. Duan, B. Philippe, Y. Yang, H. Rensmo, L. Sun, Adv. [185] G. Park, Y. I. Kim, Y. H. Kim, M. Park, K. Y. Jang, H. Song,
 Energy Mater. 2016, 6, 1600516. K. M. Nam, Nanoscale 2017, 9, 4751.
[160] J. Yu, Q. Wang, D. O’Hare, L. Sun, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2017, 46, 5950. [186] X. Chia, A. Y. Eng, A. Ambrosi, S. M. Tan, M. Pumera, Chem. Rev.
[161] Y. Wang, D. Yan, S. El Hankari, Y. Zou, S. Wang, Adv. Sci. 2018, 5, 2015, 115, 11941.
 1800064. [187] X. Ma, W. Zhang, Y. Deng, C. Zhong, W. Hu, X. Han, Nanoscale
[162] R. Chen, S. F. Hung, D. Zhou, J. Gao, C. Yang, H. Tao, H. B. Yang, 2018, 10, 4816.
 L. Zhang, L. Zhang, Q. Xiong, H. M. Chen, B. Liu, Adv. Mater. [188] Y. Liu, C. Xiao, M. Lyu, Y. Lin, W. Cai, P. Huang, W. Tong, Y. Zou,
 2019, 31, 1903909. Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 11231.
[163] X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, G. I. N. Waterhouse, T. Zhang, [189] P. Cai, J. Huang, J. Chen, Z. Wen, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56,
 Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 9, 1900881. 4858.
[164] Y. Wang, M. Qiao, Y. Li, S. Wang, Small 2018, 14, 1800136. [190] J. Hao, W. Yang, Z. Peng, C. Zhang, Z. Huang, W. Shi, ACS Catal.
[165] a) R. Liu, Y. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Zou, S. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 2017, 7, 4214.
 1701546; b) Y. Tang, Q. Liu, L. Dong, H. B. Wu, X.-Y. Yu, Appl. [191] B. Qiu, L. Cai, Y. Wang, X. Guo, S. Ma, Y. Zhu, Y. H. Tsang,
 Catal., B 2020, 266, 118627. Z. Zheng, R. Zheng, Y. Chai, Small 2019, 15, 1904507.
[166] Y.-S. Xie, Z. Wang, M. Ju, X. Long, S. Yang, Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, [192] X. Han, X. Wu, Y. Deng, J. Liu, J. Lu, C. Zhong, W. Hu, Adv. Energy
 8354. Mater. 2018, 8, 1800935.
[167] D. Zhou, X. Xiong, Z. Cai, N. Han, Y. Jia, Q. Xie, X. Duan, T. Xie, [193] L. Pei, J. Zhong, T. Li, W. Bai, S. Wu, Y. Yuan, Y. Chen, Z. Yu, S. Yan,
 X. Zheng, X. Sun, X. Duan, Small Methods 2018, 2, 1800083. Z. Zou, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 6795.
[168] C. Kuai, Y. Zhang, D. Wu, D. Sokaras, L. Mu, S. Spence, [194] Z. Chen, R. Wu, M. Liu, Y. Liu, S. Xu, Y. Ha, Y. Guo, X. Yu, D. Sun,
 D. Nordlund, F. Lin, X.-W. Du, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 6027. F. Fang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 10304.
[169] M. Zhang, Y. Liu, B. Liu, Z. Chen, H. Xu, K. Yan, ACS Catal. 2020, [195] a) P. Chen, T. Zhou, M. Zhang, Y. Tong, C. Zhong, N. Zhang,
 10, 5179. L. Zhang, C. Wu, Y. Xie, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1701584; b) J. Hao,
[170] P. Li, X. Duan, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, G. Zhang, W. Liu, X. Sun, Adv. Energy W. Yang, J. Hou, B. Mao, Z. Huang, W. Shi, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017,
 Mater. 2018, 8, 1703341. 5, 17811; c) J. Zhang, T. Wang, D. Xue, C. Guan, P. Xi, D. Gao,
 [171] Y. Yang, L. Dang, M. J. Shearer, H. Sheng, W. Li, J. Chen, P. Xiao, W. Huang, Energy Storage Mater. 2020, 25, 202.
 Y. Zhang, R. J. Hamers, S. Jin, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1703189. [196] K. N. Dinh, Y. Sun, Z. Pei, Z. Yuan, A. Suwardi, Q. Huang, X. Liao,
[172] Y. Ma, K. Wang, D. Liu, X. Yang, H. Wu, C. Xiao, S. Ding, J. Mater. Z. Wang, Y. Chen, Q. Yan, Small 2020, 16, 1905885.
 Chem. A 2019, 7, 22889. [197] H. Liu, Q. He, H. Jiang, Y. Lin, Y. Zhang, M. Habib, S. Chen,
[173] L. Wu, L. Yu, F. Zhang, D. Wang, D. Luo, S. Song, C. Yuan, L. Song, ACS Nano 2017, 11, 11574.
 A. Karim, S. Chen, Z. Ren, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 8096. [198] X. Ding, W. Li, H. Kuang, M. Qu, M. Cui, C. Zhao, D.-C. Qi,
[174] a) S. Lee, L. Bai, X. Hu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 8072; F. E. Oropeza, K. H. L. Zhang, Nanoscale 2019, 11, 23217.
 b) F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, [199] C. Z. Yuan, Z. T. Sun, Y. F. Jiang, Z. K. Yang, N. Jiang, Z. W. Zhao,
 M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, U. Y. Qazi, W. H. Zhang, A. W. Xu, Small 2017, 13, 1604161.
 A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, [200] C. Han, W. Li, C. Shu, H. Guo, H. Liu, S. Dou, J. Wang, ACS Appl.
 W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. R. Cuenya, P. Strasser, Nat. Commun. 2020, Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 5363.
 11, 2522; c) J. Xie, J. Xin, R. Wang, X. Zhang, F. Lei, H. Qu, P. Hao, [201] S. Chen, Z. Kang, X. Zhang, J. Xie, H. Wang, W. Shao, X. Zheng,
 G. Cui, B. Tang, Y. Xie, Nano Energy 2018, 53, 74; d) B. Zhang, W. Yan, B. Pan, Y. Xie, ACS Cent. Sci. 2017, 3, 1221.
 K. Jiang, H. Wang, S. Hu, Nano Lett. 2019, 19, 530; e) J. Liu, J. Nai, [202] X. Zou, Y. Wu, Y. Liu, D. Liu, W. Li, L. Gu, H. Liu, P. Wang, L. Sun,
 T. You, P. An, J. Zhang, G. Ma, X. Niu, C. Liang, S. Yang, L. Guo, Y. Zhang, Chem 2018, 4, 1139.
 Small 2018, 14, 1703514; f) H. Zhang, B. Chen, H. Jiang, X. Duan, [203] a) B. Mohanty, M. Ghorbani-Asl, S. Kretschmer, A. Ghosh,
 Y. Zhu, C. Li, Nanoscale 2018, 10, 12991. P. Guha, S. K. Panda, B. Jena, A. V. Krasheninnikov, B. K. Jena, ACS
[175] O. Diaz-Morales, D. Ferrus-Suspedra, M. T. M. Koper, Chem. Sci. Catal. 2018, 8, 1683; b) Q. Xiong, Y. Wang, P.-F. Liu, L.-R. Zheng,
 2016, 7, 2639. G. Wang, H.-G. Yang, P.-K. Wong, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, Adv. Mater.
[176] A. C. Garcia, T. Touzalin, C. Nieuwland, N. Perini, M. T. M. Koper, 2018, 30, 1801450.
 Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 12999. [204] K. Maslana, K. Wenelska, M. Biegun, E. Mijowska, Appl. Catal., B
[177] D. Friebel, M. W. Louie, M. Bajdich, K. E. Sanwald, Y. Cai, 2020, 266, 118575.
 A. M. Wise, M.-J. Cheng, D. Sokaras, T.-C. Weng, R. Alonso-Mori, [205] L. Liang, H. Cheng, F. Lei, J. Han, S. Gao, C. Wang, Y. Sun,
 R. C. Davis, J. R. Bargar, J. K. Nørskov, A. Nilsson, A. T. Bell, J. Am. S. Qamar, S. Wei, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 12004.
 Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 1305. [206] X. Wang, L. Zhuang, Y. Jia, H. Liu, X. Yan, L. Zhang, D. Yang,
[178] J. R. Swierk, S. Klaus, L. Trotochaud, A. T. Bell, T. D. Tilley, J. Phys. Z. Zhu, X. Yao, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 16421.
 Chem. C 2015, 119, 19022. [207] K. Zhang, G. Zhang, J. Qu, H. Liu, Small 2020, 16, 1907001.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (38 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

[208] L. Zhuang, Y. Jia, H. Liu, X. Wang, R. K. Hocking, H. Liu, J. Chen, [239] H. Xu, H. Jia, B. Fei, Y. Ha, H. Li, Y. Guo, M. Liu, R. Wu, Appl.
 L. Ge, L. Zhang, M. Li, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, S. Shen, D. Yang, Catal., B 2020, 268, 118404.
 Z. Zhu, X. Yao, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1805581. [240] W. Xi, G. Yan, Z. Lang, Y. Ma, H. Tan, H. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. Li, Small
[209] J. Dai, D. Zhao, W. Sun, X. Zhu, L.-J. Ma, Z. Wu, C. Yang, Z. Cui, 2018, 14, 1802204.
 L. Li, S. Chen, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 10761. [241] J. Duan, S. Chen, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, ACS Nano 2016, 10, 8738.
[210] H. Zhang, T. Wang, A. Sumboja, W. Zang, J. Xie, D. Gao, [242] H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, Z. Cai, L. Wang, C. Tian, X. Zhang, H. Fu,
 S. J. Pennycook, Z. Liu, C. Guan, J. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1901174.
 28, 1804846. [243] H. Fan, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, C. Song, Y. Du, C. Li,
 [211] S. Chen, Z. Kang, X. Hu, X. Zhang, H. Wang, J. Xie, X. Zheng, K. Ostrikov, Appl. Catal., B 2020, 268, 118440.
 W. Yan, B. Pan, Y. Xie, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1701687. [244] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, C. Das, C. Walter, C. Göbel, V. Gutkin,
[212] K. Xu, H. Ding, H. Lv, S. Tao, P. Chen, X. Wu, W. Chu, C. Wu, D. Schmeiβer, M. Driess, ACS Catal. 2016, 7, 103.
 Y. Xie, ACS Catal. 2016, 7, 310. [245] H. Li, S. M. Xu, H. Yan, L. Yang, S. Xu, Small 2018, 14, 1800367.
 [213] Y. Chen, Z. Ren, H. Fu, X. Zhang, G. Tian, H. Fu, Small 2018, 14, [246] H. Zhang, W. Zhou, J. Dong, X. F. Lu, X. W. Lou, Energy Environ.
 1800763. Sci. 2019, 12, 3348.
 [214] B. R. Wygant, A. H. Poterek, J. N. Burrow, C. B. Mullins, ACS Appl. [247] E. Hu, Y. Feng, J. Nai, D. Zhao, Y. Hu, X. W. Lou, Energy Environ.
 Mater. Interfaces 2020, 12, 20366. Sci. 2018, 11, 872.
[215] I. G. McKendry, A. C. Thenuwara, J. Sun, H. Peng, J. P. Perdew, [248] L. Ji, J. Wang, X. Teng, T. J. Meyer, Z. Chen, ACS Catal. 2019, 10,
 D. R. Strongin, M. J. Zdilla, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 7393. 412.
[216] Q. Gao, C. Q. Huang, Y. M. Ju, M. R. Gao, J. W. Liu, D. An, [249] X. Lv, X. Li, C. Yang, X. Ding, Y. Zhang, Y. Z. Zheng, S. Li, X. Sun,
 C. H. Cui, Y. R. Zheng, W. X. Li, S. H. Yu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. X. Tao, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 1910830.
 2017, 56, 7769. [250] F. Yang, X. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wang, L. Liu, J. Ye, ACS Appl. Energy
 [217] Z. Xue, X. Li, Q. Liu, M. Cai, K. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Ke, X. Liu, G. Li, Adv. Mater. 2020, 3, 3577.
 Mater. 2019, 31, 1900430. [251] J. Bian, Z. Song, X. Li, Y. Zhang, C. Cheng, Nanoscale 2020, 12,
[218] J. Wang, L. Han, B. Huang, Q. Shao, H. L. Xin, X. Huang, Nat. 8443.
 Commun. 2019, 10, 5692. [252] H. Liu, M. Jin, D. Zhan, J. Wang, X. Cai, Y. Qiu, L. Lai, Appl. Catal.,
[219] Y. Zhao, J. Gu, Z. Chen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1904782. B 2020, 272, 118951.
[220] M. Pourbaix, Atlas of Electrochemical Equilibria in Aqueous Solutions, [253] G. Li, Q. Yang, J. Rao, C. Fu, S. C. Liou, G. Auffermann, Y. Sun,
 National Association of Corrosion Engineers, Houston, TX, USA 1974. C. Felser, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 1907791.
[221] L. Yang, H. Xu, H. Liu, D. Cheng, D. Cao, Small Methods 2019, 3, [254] Y. Pan, K. Sun, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, W. C. Cheong, Z. Chen,
 1900113. Y. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Liu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, J. Am.
[222] X. Xu, F. Song, X. Hu, Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 12324. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 2610.
[223] W. Chen, Y. Liu, Y. Li, J. Sun, Y. Qiu, C. Liu, G. Zhou, Y. Cui, Nano [255] Z. Liang, W. Zhou, S. Gao, R. Zhao, H. Zhang, Y. Tang, J. Cheng,
 Lett. 2016, 16, 7588. T. Qiu, B. Zhu, C. Qu, W. Guo, Q. Wang, R. Zou, Small 2020, 16,
[224] J. Kupka, A. Budniok, J. Appl. Electrochem. 1990, 20, 1015. 1905075.
[225] L. Zhou, M. Shao, J. Li, S. Jiang, M. Wei, X. Duan, NanoEnergy [256] L. Yang, R. Liu, L. Jiao, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 1909618.
 2017, 41, 583. [257] Y. Zhong, X. Xia, F. Shi, J. Zhan, J. Tu, H. J. Fan, Adv. Sci. 2016, 3,
[226] B. Qiu, L. Cai, Y. Wang, Z. Lin, Y. Zuo, M. Wang, Y. Chai, Adv. 1500286.
 Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1706008. [258] S. Dong, X. Chen, X. Zhang, G. Cui, Coord. Chem. Rev. 2013, 257,
[227] Y. Zhang, N. Li, Z. Zhang, S. Li, M. Cui, L. Ma, H. Zhou, D. Su, 1946.
 S. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 8490. [259] K. Xu, P. Chen, X. Li, Y. Tong, H. Ding, X. Wu, W. Chu, Z. Peng,
[228] Y. Wu, X. Tao, Y. Qing, H. Xu, F. Yang, S. Luo, C. Tian, M. Liu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 4119.
 X. Lu, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1900178. [260] Y. Zhang, B. Ouyang, J. Xu, G. Jia, S. Chen, R. S. Rawat, H. J. Fan,
[229] a) X. Xiao, C.-T. He, S. Zhao, J. Li, W. Lin, Z. Yuan, Q. Zhang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 8670.
 S. Wang, L. Dai, D. Yu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2017, 10, 893; b) R. Wu, [261] P. Chen, K. Xu, Z. Fang, Y. Tong, J. Wu, X. Lu, X. Peng, H. Ding,
 B. Xiao, Q. Gao, Y. R. Zheng, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, C. Wu, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 14710.
 S. H. Yu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 15445. [262] X. Jia, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, L. Shang, R. Shi, X. Kang,
[230] S. Xu, X. Gao, A. Deshmukh, J. Zhou, N. Chen, W. Peng, Y. Gong, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L.-Z. Wu, C.-H. Tung, T. Zhang, Adv. Energy
 Z. Yao, K. D. Finkelstein, B. Wan, F. Gao, M. Wang, M. Chen, Mater. 2016, 6, 1502585.
 H. Gou, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 2001. [263] Y. Gu, S. Chen, J. Ren, Y. A. Jia, C. Chen, S. Komarneni, D. Yang,
 [231] K. N. Dinh, X. Sun, Z. Dai, Y. Zheng, P. Zheng, J. Yang, J. Xu, X. Yao, ACS Nano 2018, 12, 245.
 Z. Wang, Q. Yan, Nano Energy 2018, 54, 82. [264] L. An, J. Feng, Y. Zhang, Y.-Q. Zhao, R. Si, G.-C. Wang, F. Cheng,
[232] K. Liu, C. Zhang, Y. Sun, G. Zhang, X. Shen, F. Zou, H. Zhang, P. Xi, S. Sun, Nano Energy 2019, 57, 644.
 Z. Wu, E. C. Wegener, C. J. Taubert, J. T. Miller, Z. Peng, Y. Zhu, [265] C. Zhu, A. L. Wang, W. Xiao, D. Chao, X. Zhang, N. H. Tiep,
 ACS Nano 2018, 12, 158. S. Chen, J. Kang, X. Wang, J. Ding, J. Wang, H. Zhang, H. J. Fan,
[233] L. Yan, B. Zhang, J. Zhu, Y. Li, P. Tsiakaras, P. Kang Shen, Appl. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1705516.
 Catal., B 2020, 265, 118555. [266] J. Zheng, X. Chen, X. Zhong, S. Li, T. Liu, G. Zhuang, X. Li,
[234] H. Sun, Y. Min, W. Yang, Y. Lian, L. Lin, K. Feng, Z. Deng, M. Chen, S. Deng, D. Mei, J.-G. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1704169.
 J. Zhong, L. Xu, Y. Peng, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 8882. [267] Z. Chen, Y. Ha, H. Jia, X. Yan, M. Chen, M. Liu, R. Wu, Adv. Energy
[235] K. Liu, F. Wang, P. He, T. A. Shifa, Z. Wang, Z. Cheng, X. Zhan, Mater. 2019, 9, 1803918.
 J. He, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1703290. [268] S. Liu, Z. Wang, S. Zhou, F. Yu, M. Yu, C. Y. Chiang, W. Zhou,
[236] G. Zhou, M. Li, Y. Li, H. Dong, D. Sun, X. Liu, L. Xu, Z. Tian, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1700874.
 Y. Tang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 30, 1905252. [269] C. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Yang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhao, Q. Wang, Small
[237] M. A. R. Anjum, M. S. Okyay, M. Kim, M. H. Lee, N. Park, J. S. Lee, 2018, 14, 1802895.
 Nano Energy 2018, 53, 286. [270] Y. Pi, N. Zhang, S. Guo, J. Guo, X. Huang, Nano Lett. 2016, 16,
[238] Z. Wu, L. Huang, H. Liu, H. Wang, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 2956. 4424.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (39 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH
 16136829, 2021, 37, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202100129 by University Of Tokyo, Wiley Online Library on [20/08/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

[271] B. Jiang, Y. Guo, J. Kim, A. E. Whitten, K. Wood, K. Kani, [280] H. Guo, Z. Fang, H. Li, D. Fernandez, G. Henkelman,
 A. E. Rowan, J. Henzie, Y. Yamauchi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, S. M. Humphrey, G. Yu, ACS Nano 2019, 13, 13225.
 12434. [281] a) J. Feng, F. Lv, W. Zhang, P. Li, K. Wang, C. Yang, B. Wang,
[272] G. Wu, X. Zheng, P. Cui, H. Jiang, X. Wang, Y. Qu, W. Chen, Y. Lin, Y. Yang, J. Zhou, F. Lin, G. C. Wang, S. Guo, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29,
 H. Li, X. Han, Y. Hu, P. Liu, Q. Zhang, J. Ge, Y. Yao, R. Sun, Y. Wu, 1703798; b) Y. Wang, L. Zhang, K. Yin, J. Zhang, H. Gao, N. Liu,
 L. Gu, X. Hong, Y. Li, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4855. Z. Peng, Z. Zhang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 39728.
[273] a) M. Scohy, S. Abbou, V. Martin, B. Gilles, E. Sibert, L. Dubau, [282] a) J. W. Yeh, S. K. Chen, S. J. Lin, J. Y. Gan, T. S. Chin, T. T. Shun,
 F. Maillard, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 9859; b) P. Jovanovic, N. Hodnik, C. H. Tsau, S. Y. Chang, Adv. Eng. Mater. 2004, 6, 299; b) B. Cantor,
 F. Ruiz-Zepeda, I. Arcon, B. Jozinovic, M. Zorko, M. Bele, M. Sala, I. T. H. Chang, P. Knight, A. J. B. Vincent, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 2004,
 V. S. Selih, S. Hocevar, M. Gaberscek, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 375, 213.
 139, 12837; c) M. Favaro, C. Valero-Vidal, J. Eichhorn, F. M. Toma, [283] G. Fang, J. Gao, J. Lv, H. Jia, H. Li, W. Liu, G. Xie, Z. Chen,
 P. N. Ross, J. Yano, Z. Liu, E. J. Crumlin, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, Y. Huang, Q. Yuan, X. Liu, X. Lin, S. Sun, H.-J. Qiu, Appl. Catal., B
 5, 11634. 2020, 268, 118431.
[274] X. Cui, P. Ren, D. Deng, J. Deng, X. Bao, Energy Environ. Sci. 2016, [284] X. Cui, B. Zhang, C. Zeng, S. Guo, MRS Commun. 2018, 8, 1230.
 9, 123. [285] M. W. Glasscott, A. D. Pendergast, S. Goines, A. R. Bishop,
[275] Q. Song, J. Li, S. Wang, J. Liu, X. Liu, L. Pang, H. Li, H. Liu, Small A. T. Hoang, C. Renault, J. E. Dick, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 2650.
 2019, 15, 1903395. [286] P. Mehta, P. Barboun, F. A. Herrera, J. Kim, P. Rumbach, D. B. Go,
[276] F. Cao, X. Yang, C. Shen, X. Li, J. Wang, G. Qin, S. Li, X. Pang, J. C. Hicks, W. F. Schneider, Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 269.
 G. Li, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 7245. [287] M. L. Pegis, C. F. Wise, B. Koronkiewicz, J. M. Mayer, J. Am. Chem.
[277] Y. Li, W. Zhou, X. Zhao, W. Cheng, H. Su, H. Zhang, M. Liu, Soc. 2017, 139, 11000.
 Q. Liu, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 7483. [288] W. T. Hong, R. E. Welsch, Y. Shao-Horn, J. Phys. Chem. C 2015, 120, 78.
[278] Q. Shi, C. Zhu, H. Zhong, D. Su, N. Li, M. H. Engelhard, H. Xia, [289] H. B. Tao, Y. Xu, X. Huang, J. Chen, L. Pei, J. Zhang, J. G. Chen,
 Q. Zhang, S. Feng, S. P. Beckman, D. Du, Y. Lin, ACS Energy Lett. B. Liu, Joule 2019, 3, 1498.
 2018, 3, 2038. [290] a) M. Carmo, D. L. Fritz, J. Mergel, D. Stolten, Int. J. Hydrogen
[279] H. Zhang, Y. Liu, H. Wu, W. Zhou, Z. Kou, S. J. Pennycook, J. Xie, Energy 2013, 38, 4901; b) D. M. F. Santos, C. A. C. Sequeira,
 C. Guan, J. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 20214. J. L. Figueiredo, Quim. Nova 2013, 36, 1176.

 Kexin Zhang obtained her BS degree at the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
 Beijing Institute of Technology in 2017. Currently she is a Ph.D. candidate under the supervi-
 sion of Prof. Ruqiang Zou at the Department of Material Science and Engineering, College of
 Engineering, Peking University. Her research interests include synthesis and design functional
 nanomaterials based on metal–organic frameworks for energy conversion applications.

 Ruqiang Zou is currently a professor at School of Materials Science and Engineering, Peking
 University, China. He received his Ph.D. in Engineering in 2008 from Kobe University and the
 National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Japan. He held the JSPS
 Younger Scientist during his doctoral course and a Director’s Postdoc Fellow at Los Alamos
 National Laboratory from 2008 to 2010. His research interests focus on the controllable prepara-
 tion and application of hierarchically porous functional materials for energy and environmental
 applications.

Small 2021, 17, 2100129 2100129 (40 of 40) © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH