This article is licensed under CC-BY 4.0

 pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

 The Surface Chemistry of Au(111) and Au(100) Electrodes under
 Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Potentials
 Kayvan Moradi and Marko M. Melander*
 Cite This: ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352 Read Online

 ACCESS Metrics & More Article Recommendations *
 sı Supporting Information
See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.

 ABSTRACT: Oxygen electrochemistry plays a central role in various sustainable
 energy solutions, but the factors controlling the electrocatalytic oxygen reduction
 reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) are still not fully understood
 even on model electrodes. As the electrocatalytic (OER and ORR) mechanisms cannot
 Downloaded via UNIV OF TOKYO on November 26, 2025 at 10:50:16 (UTC).

 be understood without knowing the electrode state under operation conditions, herein,
 we have employed grand canonical ensemble density functional theory (GCE-DFT) to
 systematically investigate the pH- and potential-dependent surface coverage of model
 Au(111) and Au(100) electrodes. Under ORR conditions (0.6−1.1 VRHE), both
 surfaces exhibit a moderate 1/3−2/3 monolayer OH* coverage. Adsorption structures containing OOH* intermediates are not
 among the thermodynamically most stable surface structures, challenging previous models of Au-catalyzed ORR activity and
 selectivity. Instead, our results suggest that the pH-, potential-, and coverage-dependent surface charge play key roles in the ORR
 activity and selectivity. Close to the OER equilibrium potential, both surfaces have high OH or mixed OH/O adsorbate coverage,
 which transform into surface or bulk oxides above 1.4−1.6 VRHE. These oxidation processes coincide with the onset of gold
 dissolution and indicate that the OER active surfaces consist of gold (hydr)oxides rather than metallic gold. Our findings have direct
 implications for the necessity of explicitly accounting for the effects of surface coverage, applied potential, and pH on electrocatalytic
 activity and long-term stability of gold electrodes in oxygen electrochemistry.
 KEYWORDS: Gold single crystal electrode, Oxygen reduction reaction, Oxygen evolution reaction,
 Grand canonical density functional theory, Oxygen electrochemistry, Surface coverage

 ■ INTRODUCTION
 Environmental hazards and climate change resulting from
 mechanism on catalysts such as gold or carbon-based
 materials.13,14 However, despite extensive experimental and
 industrial fossil fuel consumption present significant chal- computational studies,3,4,6,7,10−12,15−18 the microscopic mech-
 lenges, necessitating a transition to clean energy sources.1−4 anisms and factors governing ORR activity and selectivity
 Oxygen electrochemistry plays a key role in this transition:5 the towards the 4e− or 2e− pathways are not fully understood even
 oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is crucial for electrochemical on model electrodes such as gold single crystals. This
 energy conversion, particularly in fuel cells, hydrogen peroxide knowledge gap hinders the rational design and development
 production, and metal−air batteries.6,7 In contrast, the of more active, stable, and selective ORR electrocatalysts.
 The ORR mechanism, selectivity, and activity are known to
 oxidative oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is the crucial
 depend sensitively on the electrochemical reaction conditions
 half-cell reaction in electrocatalytic hydrogen production
 such as the electrode material, surface structure, (nano)particle
 through water splitting.1,8 The ORR is thermodynamically
 size, electrode potential, electrolyte composition, and mass
 favorable below electrode potentials of 1.23 V versus RHE,
 transport.3,6,15,18−20 This sensitivity is often more pronounced
 while the OER is possible above this potential. Despite decades
 in alkaline environments than in acidic environments. This is
 of intense studies in ORR and OER electrocatalysis, the
 particularly true for materials (e.g., Au) and conditions for
 complex electrochemistry of these reactions still remains only
 which the potential of zero charge is located positive of the
 partly understood, even on well-defined single-crystal model
 ORR potentials where the surface is negatively charged. For
 electrodes; in this work, we focus on resolving the surface
 instance, on materials like gold, the potential of zero charge is
 chemistry of gold model electrodes under ORR and OER
 conditions as a function of pH.
 In ORR electrocatalysis, molecular oxygen is converted into Received: May 22, 2025
 water or hydroxide ions under acidic or alkaline conditions, Revised: July 31, 2025
 respectively, through a 4e− mechanism.2,9 Currently, platinum- Accepted: September 4, 2025
 based materials are the best 4e−-ORR electrocatalysts as they Published: September 19, 2025
 achieve superior activity and stability.10−12 On the other hand,
 hydrogen peroxide can be generated through a 2e−-ORR

 © 2025 American Chemical Society https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 2338 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

moved to more positive potentials under more alkaline that the formation of a superoxide (O2 ) ion in solution due to
conditions, which means that the surface carries a more an outer-sphere electron transfer step that initiates the 4e-ORR
negative charge density under alkaline conditions, which in in alkaline media.35,36 This initial outer-sphere electron transfer
turn is expected to amplify the role of electrolyte interactions step facilitates the adsorption of the O2 species and thereby
and cation effects.3,15,17−19,21 Most often the ORR activity and increases activity, but the selectivity towards 2e− or 4e−
selectivity are explained through the stability of key adsorbed depends on the O−O dissociation barrier, which is lower on
ORR intermediates, such as O*2 , OOH*, OH*, and Au(100).23 This view is somewhat supported by DFT studies
O*.3,15,17−19 However, the intermediate adsorption energies of O2 adsorption and the initial step in ORR on gold, which
alone cannot explain the ORR selectivity and activity trends, have suggested that O2 adsorption is better viewed as an
and therefore, recent focus has been devoted to understanding electrochemical step rather than a purely chemical one due to
the role of the electrode potential, the anion and cation effects, the significant local electric field effects on reaction kinetics.16
and the role of the solvent, all of which significantly modulate Recent computational studies further demonstrate that a
the ORR kinetics.6,15,21 It is also possible that both the 2e− and high kinetic barrier of O−O bond dissociation on Au(111) is
4e− mechanisms may involve so-called outer-sphere steps, the underlying reason for the 2e− selectivity and stems from
which take place in the solvent phase rather than trough the intrinsic properties of Au(111) rather than the applied
adsorbed intermediates.6,22,23 potential.32 Additionally, a recent computational study found
 It should also be noted that the ORR does not typically take that, in alkaline solutions, the 2e− ORR pathway is preferred
place on pristine metal surfaces as the electrode surface may be due to lower O2 adsorption and association barriers, while
covered by various species. Thermodynamic Pourbaix higher potentials favor the 4e− pathway through O−O
diagrams have shown15,17,24 that the surface coverage depends dissociation.37 It should be noted, however, that the above
on the reaction conditions, such as the electrode potential and computational studies have not considered the impact of
electrolyte composition, and that the electrocatalytic surface surface coverage, which plays a crucial role in ORR. For
may have a high coverage oxygenous species such as O*2 , instance, the chemisorption of OH− acts as a precursor for the
OOH*, OH*, O*, H2O and H 2O*2 under the relevant dissociative adsorption of molecular oxygen or reaction
 intermediates, facilitating the 4e− reduction of O2.29 Addition-
electrode potential; the coverage is a key factor influencing
 ally, coadsorbed water can function as a proton donor,
the mechanism, activity, and selectivity of ORR.3,6,15,17
 promoting O−O bond cleavage and leading to 4e −
Furthermore, the formation and reduction of the oxygenous
 reduction.30 It has also be suggested that the 4e-ORR
species may lead to severe surface roughening and dissolution,
 selectivity on Au(100) results from the high pre-exponential
changes in the active surface area and morphology of the
 factor of the O−O breaking step rather than its low reaction
electrocatalysts, and thereby the electrode performance and
 barrier.38
stability under ORR conditions.25−28 Therefore, careful
 Besides the importance of the O−O bond cleavage kinetics,
consideration of the surface coverage under working
 several studies have concluded that stabilization of adsorbed
conditions is crucial when studying and designing ORR
 OOH* through dipole-field interactions is the underlying
electrocatalysts.
 Gold has and continues to serve as a crucial model system to reason for Au(100)’s selectivity towards 4e-ORR;17,39,40
understand the surface structure, pH, electrode potential, and however, it must again be emphasized that this conclusion is
electrolyte’s impact on ORR electrocatalysis selectivity and largely based on DFT simulations at very low surface coverage
activity. In particular, experiments on Au single crystal and without the presence of possible co-adsorbates, such as
electrodes show curious selectivity; on most gold surfaces, OH* and O*, which may significantly impact the stability of
Au(111) in particular, only 2e-ORR is observed under all pH OOH*.17,39 While the stability of the surface-bound OOH*
conditions but the Au(100) electrode is highly active and intermediate is often invoked to explain the 2e− vs 4e− ORR
selective toward the 4e-ORR under alkaline conditions. In selectivity difference between Au(111) and Au(100),17,39
acidic conditions, gold surfaces typically follow a 2-electron recent large-scale enhanced sampling molecular dynamics
(2e−) pathway, producing hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or simulations of alkaline ORR on Au(100) show that OOH*
hydroperoxide (OOH−) intermediates. Conversely, in alkaline is not a thermodynamically stable state along the reaction
environments, gold, especially the Au(100) surface, not only pathway from O*2 to OH*.41 This study further shows that
shows higher catalytic activity compared to platinum but also while OOH* is formed during the ORR reaction, it easily
facilitates the 4e− pathway within a specific potential range dissociates to form OH*, which is thermodynamically more
(0.7−1.0 V RHE).16,17,21,23,29−34 stable than either O*2 or OOH*.42 It has also been shown the
 Over the years, several explanations have been proposed to both OOH* and H2O2* formation steps are facile on Au(100)
explain the ORR selectivity differences between Au(100) and under alkaline conditions. These findings imply that the
Au(111). While 2e−-ORR may proceed through an outer- OOH* species is not among the thermodynamically most
sphere mechanism without the adsorption of reaction stable surface species and that it forms only transiently without
intermediates on the surface, at least the 4e− pathway is long-lived OOH*.
expected to include inner-sphere steps where stable reaction It has also been demonstrated that the local electric field at
intermediates such as O*2 or OH* are adsorbed on the surface. the metal/electrolyte interface significantly influences O2
It is furthermore possible that both the 2e− and 4e− pathways adsorption during the ORR. Ab initio molecular dynamics
include both inner- and outer-sphere reaction steps. For simulations reveal that, while O2 adsorption on Au(111)
instance, it has been proposed that the 4e− reduction of O2 on exhibits strong potential dependence, this effect is absent on
Au(100) in basic electrolytes is due to the disproportionation Pt(111) due to its intrinsically different reactivity and surface
mechanism, where two initially formed OOH− react to form coverage dynamics.33 However, the influence of surface
OH− and O2 in the liquid phase.31 Another study suggested coverage, which plays a crucial role in modifying the local
 2339 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

electric field and subsequently affecting the ORR potential and Au dissolution and bulk oxidation may be initiated by
performance, has not been addressed. More generally, it should extraction and place-exchange mechanisms.62 In surface
be noted that dipole-field models cannot reliably distinguish extraction gold atoms are removed from the outermost Au
electrostatic interactions from covalent or charge-transfer layer due to repulsive interactions between adsorbed oxygen
interactions43 and that electrostatic potential profile, or the species (OHad and Oad), while in the place-exchange
associated electric field, cannot correctly predict the electro- mechanism, an oxygen atom (Oad) penetrates the subsurface
static interactions at the electrochemical interface.44 region and replaces a gold atom. However, differentiation
 Besides ORR, potential-dependent surface coverage is a key between these two mechanisms has not been possible
factor in determining OER activity and electrode stability, experimentally. While the dissolution mechanism and related
which are crucial for any practical OER catalyst.8,45−52 oxygen species are generally unknown, the onset of oxidative
Furthermore, the catalyst dissolution and its OER activity are gold dissolution is accompanied by “massive” OH/O
often related as they share common reaction intermediates.53 adsorption and likely OH/O place-exchange around 1.5
Electrocatalyst instability during OER can arise from several VRHE.62 At higher potentials, OER and gold dissolution take
mechanisms, but surface oxidation, followed by electrode place simultaneously,62 and it has also been proposed that the
dissolution, is usually the initial and predominant pathway onset of OER (1.9−2.0 V RHE ) coincides with oxide
leading to electrode destruction.54−56 Understanding dissolu- decomposition, likely through lattice oxygen participation.63
tion under OER conditions is, however, far from complete, and The dynamic restructuring of Au under these conditions
the complex dissolution (electro)chemistry remains poorly underscores the complexity of its catalytic and degradation
understood and constitutes a critical issue in fundamental and behavior.57,63
applied electrochemistry.55,56 The above discussion clearly highlights that the electrode
 As the fundamental mechanisms of dissolution remain potential has a crucial role in determining the surface coverage,
poorly understood even on ideal model systems,54 in this work, thermodynamics, and kinetics of ORR, OER, and electrode
the thermodynamics of gold electrode oxidation is studied to dissolution, but despite extensive studies on oxygen electro-
understand how the oxidation is linked to surface dissolution chemistry, many questions regarding the effect of surface
and OER. Although gold is not a proper OER catalyst due its coverage, electrode potential, and pH on the ORR and OER
poor OER activity, Au(111) and Au(100) serve as prototypical mechanism, activity, and selectivity remain open. Computa-
single-crystal electrodes whose well-defined surfaces enable tional approaches can provide detailed atomistic insight on
precise investigations of potential- and pH-dependent these issues, but the most widely used computational method
adsorption, charge transfer, and oxide formation under OER
 in electrocatalysis−the computational hydrogen electrode
conditions; this makes gold single crystal ideal model
 (CHE)64−cannot self-consistently describe the influence of
electrodes for gaining fundamental understanding on the
 electrode potential, surface charge, explicit pH, or electric field
coupling between surface oxidation, electrode dissolution, and
 effects on the reaction thermodynamics. Consequently, the
OER.57,58 In particular, both the OER activity and dissolution
 CHE method falls short of accurately explaining the effects of
of gold electrodes appear to be due to the formation of gold
 electrode potential and pH on the surface (electro)chemistry
(surface) oxides, but the nature of these oxide surface species
in the OER region remains unknown:59 “the precise nature of of gold.17,65
these adsorbed oxygenated species remains uncertain, whether Grand canonical ensemble density functional theory (GCE-
they are OHads/Oads or various forms of oxides/hydrous DFT) offers an alternative approach to traditional constant
oxide...the term ‘oxide’” is instead used in the literature as an charge or canonical DFT calculations and the CHE model.
umbrella term for both OH/O adsorption and true oxide GCE-DFT facilitates simulations of electrochemical interfaces
formation. under constant electrode potential by self-consistently adjust-
 Previous computational and experimental studies57,60 of gold ing the system charge until the chosen electrode potential is
oxidation under OER conditions (1.23−2.0 VRHE) concluded reached. In contrast to CHE, GCE-DFT explicitly and self-
that the oxidation starts with surface oxidation and formation consistently incorporates the effect of the electrode potential
of Au(OH)3 species, which is transformed into a highly on all properties of the system. Therefore, GCE-DFT can
disordered Au−O−OH surface at 1.28 VRHE before trans- naturally capture the influence of the electrode potential,
forming into bulk Au2O3 at 1.54 VRHE. OER starts at around surface charge, and electric-field effects on reaction thermody-
2.0 VRHE, likely through a mechanism where two oxygens from namics without resorting to, e.g., additional field corrections
the surface oxide form O2 through either oxide decomposition often used to correct for canonical DFT and CHE
or oxide disproportionation.57 The surface oxidation is also results.43,66−68 Furthermore, GCE-DFT can naturally describe
closely linked to gold dissolution, which starts at around 1.5 how the electrode potential influences reaction kinetics and
VRHE. Beyond this potential, gold is susceptible to both anodic thermodynamics of pure charge or electron transfer reactions,
and cathodic dissolution, which means that gold can dissolve nominally chemical reactions, and, e.g., proton transfer
either oxidatively as the potential is made higher or through reactions while the CHE model is limited to describing the
reductive processes as the potential is lowered, respectively. electrode potential effects on the reaction thermodynamics of
Both dissolution and oxide formation depend sensitively on proton-coupled electron transfer reactions.66,68 In the context
both the electrode potential and transient dissolution occurs of ORR, GCE-DFT has been particularly useful for
during both oxide formation (anodic dissolution) and demonstrating and clarifying the so-called non-Nernstian67
reduction (cathodic dissolution).57,60,61 Acidic media favors and electric field effects on adsorption energies and surface
anodic dissolution, while alkaline conditions favor cathodic coverages of particularly OH and OOH.6,17 One consequence
dissolution and the amount of gold transiently dissolved in of the non-Nernstian effects is the nonlinearity of the grand
alkaline medium is more than an order of magnitude higher in adsorption free energies as a function of the electrode potential
comparison to that in acidic medium.58,61 and pH, while the CHE results in a strictly linear dependency
 2340 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

between in the adsorption energy as a function of electrode atoms, consistent with prior findings,78 while standard cavity
potential and pH.67,69 radii were applied for oxygen and hydrogen atoms. Further
 In this work, we present a comprehensive computational details regarding the GCE-DFT calculations are provided in
investigation of the electrochemical surface chemistry of the Supporting Information.
Au(111) and Au(100) under ORR and OER conditions The lattice constant of Au was calculated to be 4.10 Å, which
using constant potential GCE-DFT simulations. By explicitly is in good agreement with the experimental value of 4.065 Å.79
modeling the effect of the electrode potential on surface The Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces were studied as the former
coverage, our results provide insight into the chemical state of is selective toward 2e-ORR and the latter toward 4e-ORR. The
the electrode surface under operating conditions. Our results electrode surfaces were modeled as four-layer 2D-periodic 3 ×
show that under the ORR-relevant potential both surfaces are 3 orthogonal unit cells. The positions of the top two layers
covered only by OH* species and that OOH*-containing were allowed to relax, while the bottom two layers were fixed at
structures are not among the thermodynamically most stable their bulk positions. A 5 × 5 ×1 k-point mesh was employed in
under the considered potential and pH range; this challenges the surface calculations, and a continuum water layer of 15 Å
previous models that attribute 4e− ORR activity on Au(100) to was added on top of the slab. Geometry optimizations were
field-stabilized OOH* adsorption. We also find that OH* performed using the BFGS algorithm until the maximum
coverage modulates the surface charge and PZC, which residual force was less than 0.05 eV Å−1. Vibrational analysis
together with recent experimental findings21 suggests that was performed for all optimized minima to confirm their
ORR selectivity is determined by the surface structure and the nature as stationary points.
surface charge and related electrostatic properties of the Adsorption Free Energies, Surface Coverages, and
electrochemical interfaces rather than adsorption energies of Potential of Zero Charge. Adsorption grand free energies
reaction intermediates. At the OER-relevant potentials (∼1.2− were computed using constant potential and electronically
1.4 VRHE), where also Au dissolution starts, the surfaces grand canonical ensemble DFT and used for constructing
undergo adsorbate-induced restructuring; in this potential surface phase diagrams, i.e., Pourbaix diagrams,80 as a function
range, Au(111) exhibits signatures of coverage-driven oxygen of potential and pH. The grand free energies were calculated in
place-exchange, while Au(100) shows potential-driven gold the e NI eTV ensemble corresponding to a constant electrode
atom lifting or extraction. These processes signal the onset of potential, i.e., the chemical potential electrons, e , fixed number
surface dissolution that precedes bulk oxidation. At even higher of other species (NI≠e), temperature, and volume. The
potentials, both surfaces can form bulk oxide phases such as aqueous-phase free energies were obtained by using the
Au2O3 and Au(100) and can form complex surface oxides. The ideal-gas approximation. As the pV term for adsorbed species is
formation of bulk and surface oxides under potentials where negligible, their Gibbs free energies for the adsorbed species
OER is observed implies that the oxides are the catalytically were approximated as Helmholtz free energies. The potential
active states during the OER. Altogether, our findings offer a of zero charge (PZC) values are given by the maxima81 of the
unified understanding of how surface coverage, potential, and parabolic grand free energy curves presented in Figure S3.
pH collectively shape the surface (electro)chemistry of gold The derivation of the grand free energies can be found in the
electrodes in oxygen electrochemistry. Supporting Information, and the adsorption grand free

■ COMPUTATIONAL METHODS AND MODELS
Constant potential DFT calculations were carried out within
 energies for various combinations of OOH*, OH*, O*, and
 H* as functions of potential and pH on the RHE scale are
 computed as
the electronically GCE-DFT formalism using the surface-
jellium model (SJM) as implemented in GPAW.70−72 The ads(URHE) = (3nOOH + 2nO + nOH nH)
electrode potential is controlled by using the SJM72 approach ÅÄÅ 1 ÑÉÑ
in which the number of electrons is adjusted iteratively until × ÅÅÅÅ URHE ÑÑÑÑ + surf (2nOOH + nO + nOH)
the absolute electrode potential (Fermi level) converges to its ÅÇ 2 H2 ÑÖ
preset value. As derived and discussed in the Supporting × H 2O Au (2)
Information, the absolute potential is related to the desired
standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) potential by aligning the Here, ΔΩads(URHE) is the explicitly potential-dependent grand
Fermi level with the absolute vacuum level, using −4.44 eV as free energy of adsorption at the applied potential on the RHE
the absolute SHE reference.73 In this work, we report the scale (URHE), surf is the electrochemical potential, i.e., the
potentials on the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale as grand free energy, of the surface with the adsorbed species at a
it removes the constant, Nernstian pH shift from the electrode constant potential, H is the chemical potential of molecular
potentials68 and thereby facilitates the comparison of electrode 2

potential and pH effects on coverages, voltammetry, and the hydrogen, H O is the chemical potential of water, Au is the
 2
potentials of zero charge. The conversion to URHE and the electrochemical potential, i.e., the grand free energy, of the
description of pH effects is achieved through the relation bare gold surface, and nx presents the number of adsorbed
 URHE = USHE + 2.303kBT ·pH OOH*, OH*, O*, and H* species. The considered adsorbates
 (1)
 were selected based on their direct involvement in oxygen
 The Kohn−Sham equations were solved on a real-space grid electrochemistry, and H2O was excluded due to its low
with a grid spacing of 0.18 Å. Exchange and correlation effects adsorption energy on the considered Au surfaces under the
were described with the Perdew−Burke−Ernzerhof (PBE) studied conditions82,83 The procedure for computing the grand
functional74 with the Tkatchenko and Scheffler (TS09) adsorption energies from GCE-DFT calculations is also
dispersion correction.75,76 To incorporate solvent effects, the visualized in Figure S2.
continuum solvent model for water as implemented in GPAW We note that while eq 2 used for computing the adsorption
was employed.77 A cavity radius of 2.0 Å was used for Au grand free energies appears similar to the computational
 2341 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

Figure 1. An overview of Au(100) (top) and Au(111) (bottom) surface coverage as a function of potential. The extent of surface displacement
relative to the bare surface is also shown.

hydrogen electrode (CHE) method,84 there is a key difference: DFT methods because the electrostatic potential that
in GCE-DFT, the grand free energies (Ω or i ) of each surface determines the reference scale for the absolute potential in
state depends explicitly and uniquely on the electrode potential GCE-DFT is not unique in charged periodic systems, which
and surface configuration/coverage. The stoichiometric prevents the establishment of a unique value for the electrode
coefficients in the equation have the same meaning as in the potential.95 Therefore, we used the implicit CHE method to
CHE and simply account for the number of electrons and compute the formation free energy of the bulk gold oxides
protons exchanged between the electron reservoir (electrode) from the Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces as a function of
and the hydrogen reservoir (H2O). Note that we use solvated potential.84 The CHE model is expected to provide a valid
H2O and H2 as references as they are significantly less prone to description of bulk oxides that remain charge neutral and
DFT errors than, e.g., O285−89 and compute all reaction/ unpolarized under varying electrode potential conditions. The
adsorption grand free energies against this reference. This reaction equation for the bulk oxidation from a gold surface is
choice is also convenient, as it leads to the formation of H2, given by
which allows facile presentation of the electrode potential on x × Au(surf) + y × H 2O AuxOy (bulk) + y × H 2
the SHE or RHE rather than on the absolute electrode
potential scale as shown in the Supporting Information. (3)
 It is important to note that the inherent uncertainty in When normalized by the number of Au atoms, the formation
adsorption energy calculations from DFT is approximately energy on the RHE scale is given by
±0.2 eV, corresponding to an error of ±0.2 V in the predicted
adsorption potentials86,90 (see also the discussion in the G(URHE)
 = G bulk + y × (G H2 2 × URHE)
Supporting Information). Furthermore, we have neglected the nAu
explicit solvent and electrolyte ion effects, which may
 x × G(surf) y × G(H 2O) (4)
contribute to the accuracy of our results, especially when the
surface charge is high. However, our previous study has shown where x and y are the stoichiometric coefficients. Further
that the used computational procedure describes potential- details regarding the CHE-DFT calculations are provided in
dependent surface coverage of Pt(111) under ORR conditions the Supporting Information.
in excellent agreement with experiments and that the neglect of Simulated Linear Sweep Voltammetry. Potential-
solvent and cation effects leads to an ∼±0.05 V error in the dependent adsorption energies were used to compute
OH adsorption potential.6 Another limitation of the used thermodynamic linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) via the
computational approach is its limited ability to capture following equation:6
potential-induced surface restructuring phenomena such as
add-atom formation or global restructuring such as the Q Q U
 jads = = · · = Cads· ·
herringbone pattern formation91,92 of the Au(111) or t U t U (5)
Au(100) surface reconstruction from a hexagonal structure where jads, Q, ΔCads, θ, U, t, and ν are the adsorption current
to a 1 × 1 structure.38 Capturing such effects would require density, the total charge passed, the charge associated with
using larger unit cells as well as combining computationally adsorption/desorption of a species (e.g., −1 for O, OH, and
expensive state-of-the-art global structure search methods93,94 OOH adsorption), surface coverage, applied potential, time,
with the performed OOH/OH/O coverage sampling, which is and the sweep rate, respectively. The potential-dependent
currently computationally intractable at the GCE-DFT level of surface coverages were directly computed using GCE-DFT,
theory. and a smooth, continuous spline fit was made on the
 Bulk Oxidation Free Energies. We also considered the discontinuous surface coverage to facilitate the computation
electrochemical properties of the gold surfaces to bulk oxides.
The formation thermodynamics of bulk structures cannot be of the term in eq 5. The surface coverage is discontinuous
 U
computed explicitly as a function of the potential using GCE- due to the use of a rather small simulation cell. Further details
 2342 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

Figure 2. Computed adsorption grand free energies for (left) Au(100) and (right) Au(111) surfaces. The solid lines in different colors represent
varying coverages of H, OH, O, and OOH as a function of electrode potential.

Figure 3. Top: Coverages (θ) as a function of potential. There are 9 surface atoms so, e.g., a 3OH coverage corresponds to 1/3 monolayer (ML)
coverage. The dots are the GCE-DFT computed coverages; the line is a spline fit. Bottom: Thermodynamic linear-sweep voltammograms for
surface oxidation.

on the computational procedure are provided in the Adsorption as a Function of Potential and pH. We
Supporting Information. Note that our GCE-DFT simulations systematically investigated the adsorption of different oxide
address adsorption and surface coverage as a function of species (H*, OH*, O*, and OOH*) and their combinations
potential and pH. This means that the simulated LSVs are on the Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces as a function of
purely thermodynamic, and therefore, they cannot replicate the potential under various pH conditions. Figure S1 shows the
voltammetric peaks due to surface reactions (kinetics were not atomic structures of bare Au(111) and Au(100) slabs with
studied) or capacitive baseline of experimental scans (due to adsorbates from both top and side views. An overview of the
inherent limitations of the solvent model). For these reasons, most stable structures within a potential range of 0−2 VRHE is
the simulated current densities do not quantitatively match given in Figure 1, and the computed adsorption grand free
experiments, but peak positions due to adsorption and surface energies of all relevant surface coverages as a function of VRHE
oxidation are captured. are depicted in Figure 2. Below, we discuss the surface

■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Here, we present the thermodynamic surface phase diagrams
 coverages separately for the ORR and the OER or the gold
 oxidation regions.
 Surface Structure in the ORR Region. Figures 1 and 2
of Au(111) and Au(100) as functions of potential and pH as show that under potentials below 1.23 VRHE only a few surface
obtained through GCE-DFT simulations. As our results show structures are thermodynamically stable. In the potential range
that the electrode potential effects are more prominent, we first of 0.0−0.6 VRHE, the gold surfaces are free of adsorbates while
focus on the influence of the electrode potential on the hydrogen adsorption is observed at potentials below 0 VRHE
adsorption energies, surface phase diagrams, and main (Figure S9). As a general trend, we observe that, as the
adsorption phenomena at a fixed pH of 13. This is followed potential is increased into the ORR region (0.6−1.23 VRHE),
by a discussion on how the pH and potential together OH adsorption occurs on both Au(100) and Au(111) surfaces,
influence the surface chemistry of Au(111) and Au(100). as shown in Figure 1. This indicates that, under ORR
 2343 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

Figure 4. Coverages (θ) and thermodynamic linear-sweep voltammograms for surface oxidation as a function of potential and pH for Au(100)
(left) and Au(111) (right) . There are 9 surface atoms so, e.g., a 3OH coverage corresponds to 1/3 monolayer (ML) coverage.

conditions, gold surfaces become increasingly covered by around 0.6 and 0.9 V vs RHE have been reported.99 According
varying amounts of OH species. to our results in Figures 3 and 4, these adsorption peaks
 A more careful inspection shows differences between the correspond to the formation of 4/9 OH* coverage and the
Au(100) and Au(111) coverages. The surface phase diagram of mixed OH*+O* coverage. On Au(100), the main OH*
Au(100) is rather simple. In the ORR region, i.e., potentials adsorption occurs around 0.5 V vs RHE for Au(100),98 which
between 0.6 and 1.1 VRHE Au(100) have a moderate OH we attribute to the formation of 1/3 ML OH* coverage.
coverage between 1/3 and 2/3 monolayers (ML). At higher Overall, the experimental OH* adsorption potentials agree
potentials between 1.1 and 1.4 VRHE, an even higher OH well with the OH* adsorption potentials identified in our
coverage of 8/9 is observed. The surface coverage of Au(111) simulations as the computed adsorption transition potentials
is slightly more complex. Similar to Au(100), in the ORR fall within ∼0.2 V of the experimental features, which is within
region, Au(111) is also covered with moderate OH coverage the expected accuracy of DFT-based adsorption energetics
between 4/9 and 6/9 monolayers. However, around 1.0 VRHE, (Supporting Information).
a mixed OH+O phase is observed before the surface is oxidized We also investigated the combined effect of pH and
around 1.4 VRHE, as also observed experimentally.29,38 These electrode potential on surface coverages. The results in Figure
findings highlight that in the ORR region both Au(100) and 4 show that for Au(100) increases the pH shifts the OH
Au(111) have a moderate OH coverage, which will likely adsorption peaks between ∼0.5 and 1.2 VRHE to lower
influence the surface properties and reactivity under ORR potentials while the main oxidation peak above 1.2 VRHE is
conditions. shifted to higher potentials. This shows that Au(100) in
 To facilitate the comparison of our simulations with alkaline pH facilitates OH adsorption and prevents oxidation.
experiments, Figures 3 and 4 show the thermodynamic linear In alkaline conditions, also, a higher OH coverage is reached
sweep voltammograms corresponding to the thermodynamic than in acidic conditions as seen also experimentally.100 Similar
adsorption processes at the Au(100) and Au(111) surfaces at trends are observed also for the Au(111) surface, as shown in
pH 13. On Au(100), the main OH* is around 0.5 VRHE, while Figure 4: the OH adsorption peaks move to higher potentials
smaller peaks at 0.65 and 0.85 VRHE corresponding to as the pH is decreased, while the opposite is observed for O
moderate OH adsorption are observed in the ORR region. adsorption. Overall, the observed pH dependencies on the
Au(111) displays two main peaks at around 1.1 and 0.6 VRHE, surface coverage are rather small, but the pH effects are slightly
which correspond to mixed OH/O adsorption and moderate stronger for Au(111) than for Au(100).
coverage OH adsorption, respectively. In the ORR region, both Figure 4 shows that the surface coverage of Au(111)
Au(100) and Au(111) have moderate, 4/9−6/9 monolayer depends more sensitively on the pH than that of Au(100). In
OH coverage, and surface structures containing OOH* are not general, lowering the pH increases the OH and O adsorption
among the most thermodynamically stable species on either potentials on both surfaces. However, in the ORR region, i.e.,
surface. around 0.8 VRHE, Au(100) has 4/9 monolayer (4OH) coverage
 By comparing the peak positions in the computed and of OH at all pH values. In contrast, Au(111) exhibits distinct
experimentally measured LSVs, we can understand the surface pH-dependent behavior. At a fixed potential of approximately
coverage under the ORR conditions. Although many 0.8 VRHE, the surface coverage at pH = 1 consists of a lower
experimental CVs of Au(111) and Au(100) appear featureless OH adsorption, forming a 4/9 monolayer (4OH). However,
between 0 and 1 V vs RHE and only show the significantly with increasing pH, the OH coverage increases to a 5/9
high oxide formation peak around 1.4 V vs RHE,29,38 the monolayer (5OH). This suggests that Au(111) demonstrates
smaller current densities related to OH adsorption96 between greater resistance towards surface oxide formation in acidic
0.5 and 0.9 V vs RHE are clearly visible when a proper conditions compared to alkaline environments, a trend that is
magnification of the relevant potential region is provided.97,98 also evident from the LSV results presented in Figures 3 and 4.
For Au(111), either clear OH* peaks at ∼0.7−0.9 V vs RHE97 Interestingly and in contrast to previous studies17,30,39,101
or two broad features attributed to OH* adsorption centered that emphasize the role of a stable OOH* in controlling the
 2344 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

4e-ORR on selectivity, we find that structures containing negatively charged. It is important to note that, although
OOH* are never among the most stable adsorption previous studies have suggested that the ORR on Au occurs at
configurations. Instead, our calculations show that, while potentials positive relative to the PZC,23,38 our findings
OOH* adsorption is exergonic and therefore thermodynami- indicate that this is not the case for the relevant stable surface
cally possible at potentials above ∼1 V vs RHE (magenta lines coverage within the ORR potential region. These findings
in Figure 2), the adsorption of O* and OH* is always more highlight the critical role of surface coverage in modulating the
exergonic than that of OOH*; therefore, coverages of O*/ PZC, surface charge, and thereby the electrostatic properties of
OH* are thermodynamically more stable than those of the electrochemical interfaces, such as the local electric field
adsorbed OOH*. and likely their electrocatalytic behavior.
 While our results on the unstable nature of OOH* with To quantify the surface charge as a function of potential and
respect to OH* are in line with the enhanced sampling coverage, we compared the surface charge densities of the
simulations of ORR on Au(100),41 we manually changed the Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces. The data in Table 1 indicate
adsorption energy of OOH* in the coverage simulations at an
ORR-relevant potential of 0.9 VRHE across varying pH Table 1. Surface Charge Density for the Au(100) and
conditions to check that this result is not an artifact of our Au(111) Surfaces at a Potential of 1.07 (and 0.77) VRHE at
simulation setup. For Au(100), substantial corrections to the pH = 13 for the Bare and the Most Stable Surface Structures
DFT-calculated adsorption energies were necessary to observe in the ORR Region
any OOH-containing structure at 0.9 VRHE: the OOH
 Au(100) μC/cm2 Au(111) μC/cm2
adsorption energy needed to be modified by −0.43 eV,
−0.41 eV, and −0.40 eV at pH 1, 7, and 13, respectively, to bare −1.44 (−6.31) bare −3.45 (−7.40)
make any OOH*-containing surface structure appear among 3OH −4.76 (−9.15) 3OH −17.78 (−21.79)
the most stable coverages. On the Au(111) surface, slightly 4OH −6.31 (−10.78) 5OH −28.69 (−32.86)
smaller modifications to the DFT adsorption energy were 6OH −12.63 (−17.50) 6OH+2O −24.67 (−30.75)
sufficient to observe OOH* among the most stable structures
and corrections of −0.26 eV, −0.28 eV, and −0.30 eV were that Au(111) is more negatively charged than Au(100) under
needed for pH 1, 7, and 13, respectively. As discussed in detail the same electrode potential conditions and that the higher
in the Supporting Information, the correction needed to make hydroxyl coverage leads to a more negative surface charge.
any OOH*-containing structure appear among the thermody- This is an important finding because the recent work by
namically most stable configurations is significantly larger than Bender et al.21 shows that cation effects on alkaline ORR are
the gas-phase or inherent DFT errors in adsorption more pronounced on surfaces whose PZC is more positive
energies,86,90 and therefore, the conclusion that OOH* is than the ORR potential. In particular, the higher electric field
not among the most stable species is not an artifact caused by resulting from the more negative surface charge promotes
limitations of the computational model. It is also important to cation adsorption at the interface, which may result in surface
notice (1) that Au(111) requires weaker OOH* stabilization poisoning, lower interfacial O2 concentration,21 and thereby
than Au(100) and (2) that the correction is pH independent slow the ORR kinetics of Au(111) as compared to Au(100).
even though stabilization of OOH* under alkaline conditions This enhanced cation adsorption may contribute to the higher
has often been used to explain Au(100)’s 4e-ORR ORR activity observed for Au(100) relative to Au(111) in
selectivity.17,30,39,101 These tests strongly indicate that even alkaline conditions and its preference for the 4e− reduction
very strong stabilization of the OOH* by water, ion, or dipole- pathway as suggested for the alkaline ORR on Pt(111).6 In
field interactions are unlikely to render any OOH*-containing general, it is expected that variations in the surface coverage
coverage to be among the thermodynamically most stable impact both the PZC and surface charge with a significant
surface structures under ORR conditions; this in turn influence on the properties of the electrochemical interfaces
questions the role of a stable OOH* species in controlling and the selectivity and activity toward the ORR and other
the ORR selectivity. electrocatalytic processes.
 To gain insight into surface coverage effects on the The PZC of Au(100) and Au(111) surfaces are also strongly
interfacial properties of Au(111) and Au(100) under ORR influenced by the coverage and the pH on the RHE scale, as
potentials, we analyzed the potential of zero charge (PZC) for summarized in Table 2. As a general trend, we observe that
the most stable structures at different SHE potentials, as increasing the pH and the OH coverage shifts the PZC toward
presented in Table 2 and Figure S3. The bare Au(111) surface higher potentials and that Au(111) has a higher PZC than
exhibits a higher PZC than Au(100), which indicates that Au(100) under the same conditions. The most striking
Au(111) tends to become more negatively charged at the same observation is that under acidic conditions the PZC of
applied potential below PZC. As discussed in the Supporting Au(100) is below the ORR region of 0.6−1.0 VRHE for all
Information, the calculated PZC values for bare Au(100) and structures but the 2/3 ML OH coverage; this means that the
Au(111) achieve good agreement with previous computational most stable surface structures of Au(100), i.e., the 3 and 4 OH
studies but overestimate the experimental PZCs by ∼0.2 V. coverage (Figure 4), are positively charged under acidic ORR
 The OH adsorption and higher OH coverage move the PZC conditions. This observation aligns with a previous report
to higher potentials on both Au(100) and Au(111). This shift suggesting that ORR on gold occurs at potentials more positive
is attributed to the strong electron-withdrawing nature of OH than the PZC in acidic conditions.38 In contrast, under neutral
species, which increases the work function of the surface and and alkaline conditions, the ORR generally takes place at
consequently moves the PZC toward more oxidative potentials negative relative to the PZC on both Au(111) and
potentials. The increase in PZC with OH coverage is more Au(100). While the O2 dissociation barrier does not depend
pronounced for Au(111) than for Au(100), emphasizing that on the surface charge,37 O2 adsorption is significantly stronger
at the same potentials below the PZC, Au(111) is more on negatively charged surfaces.16,37 Our previous studies of
 2345 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

Table 2. PZC of Au(100) and Au(111) Surfaces as a Function of pH for the Bare and the Most Stable Surface Structures in the
ORR Region
 U(SHE)/PZC U(RHE)/pH = 1 U(RHE)/pH = 7 U(RHE)/pH = 13
Au(100)
 bare 0.48 0.54 0.89 1.25
 3OH 0.61 0.67 1.02 1.38
 4OH 0.68 0.73 1.09 1.44
 6OH 1.00 1.05 1.41 1.76
Au(111)
 bare 0.64 0.69 1.05 1.40
 3OH 0.83 0.89 1.24 1.60
 5OH 1.84 1.90 2.26 2.61
 6OH+2O 1.08 1.14 1.49 1.85

alkaline ORR on Pt(111) further show that the ORR kinetics similar effect. At pH = 1 and 7, the mixed 6OH + 2O coverage
become faster under more reducing potentials and on more is the most stable Au(111) coverage. This coverage also shows
negatively charged surfaces.6 We therefore expect that the pH- clear signatures of place exchange, and a Au atom is lifted from
and coverage-dependent surface charge is a key factor in the lattice by 2OH and 2O groups. While the geometry of the
controlling the ORR thermodynamics and kinetics. place-exchange structures depends only slightly on the pH
 Gold Oxidation in the OER Region. In order to further values (Figures 1, S4, and S5), it is important to note that
understand the surface oxidation process and its connection under acidic conditions the mixed OH+O coverage is observed
with surface degradation and the OER, we also present a at much lower potentials than at neutral or alkaline conditions.
comprehensive structural analysis of the oxidation of Au(111) We therefore propose that the lower potential to form the
and Au(100) electrodes. In particular, the GCE-DFT results mixed OH+O coverage is the underlying reason anodic
allow us to study the potential-dependent surface coverage, (oxidative) dissolution is more prevalent under acidic than
structure, and their influence on surface extraction and place- alkaline conditions.58,61
exchange mechanisms, which have been suggested to control The above results raise the question of whether the initial
the initial stages of gold oxidation and dissolution as well as surface dissolution is driven by the surface coverage or the
their OER activity.58 electrode potential. This was studied by Fuchs et al.26 for
 The simulated LSVs and surface coverage presented in Pt(111) who demonstrated that its dissolution is primarily
Figures 3 and 4 between 0.8 and ∼1.2 VRHE show both governed by electrode potential rather than oxygen coverage.
Au(100) and Au(111) have a moderate OH coverage at pH = On gold, we observe signatures of both effects. On Au(111),
13. The geometries in Figure 1 show that, when the surfaces the place exchange is highly dependent on surface coverage but
have moderate 2/3 ML coverage of OH species, no surface less sensitive towards the electrode potential while on Au(100)
extraction or place exchange is observed, and between 0.8 and the lifting of gold atoms is predominantly influenced by the
1.2 VRHE, both Au(100) and Au(111) are expected to be stable applied potential as shown in Figures 1 and S5. The finding for
towards degradation despite the OH coverage. This is also in Au(111) suggests that when a mixed OH+O has become
agreement with dissolution experiments.58,61,62 Our results also stable on the Au(111) surface at an oxidizing potential, this
partly agree with previous computational results obtained using structure remains stable when the potential is made more
the simplified CHE model, which show that Au has a moderate reductive and, thereby, serves as an initiator for reductive gold
OH coverage between 1.05 and 1.17 VRHE. However, our dissolution. This mechanism may explain the experimental
results predict a much higher OH coverage at lower potentials observations where the initial oxidation of the gold surface
while the previous study predicted that the Au surface is not followed by reduction leads to cathodic dissolution especially
covered by any adsorbates at potentials below 1.05 VRHE.57 under alkaline conditions when the oxidative potential has
The differences are likely due to the non-Nernstian effects67 exceeded ∼1.2 VRHE;58 this potential agrees excellently with
arising from the explicit potential dependency of adsorption the potential value we find for the formation of the Au(111)-
energies in our GCE-DFT simulations. 5OH+2O surface structure.
 At higher potentials between 1.2 and 1.4 VRHE, Au(100) To further validate that surface coverage, rather than
develops a high 8/9 ML OH coverage, while Au(111) has a electrode potential, governs the place-exchange process on
mixed OH+O coverage. Figure 1 shows that, under these Au(111), we conducted structural optimizations in which an
conditions, both surfaces start to exhibit initial signatures of oxygen atom was replaced with an extracted gold atom at a
instability. For instance, at 1.37 VRHE, the 8/9 ML OH potential of 1.37 VRHE (Figure S6). Subsequent re-optimization
coverage of Au(100) leads to a significant lifting (0.48 Å) of a was performed to determine the most stable configuration.
Au atom coordinated to 2OH groups and may serve as the Notably, as shown in Figure S6, after re-optimization, the gold
initial stage for surface extraction of a gold atom. On the other atom did not undergo further displacement, and the oxygen
hand, the mixed 5OH+2O coverage of Au(111) coordinated to atom reverted to its original position. We also reoptimized the
2OH and 2O groups leads to clear signatures of place exchange place-exchange geometry where the oxygen atom has replaced
between 1.2 and 1.4 VRHE at pH = 13. Figure 1 shows that the the Au atom in the lattice at more and less oxidizing potentials,
adsorbed O atoms pull a gold atom from its lattice and make it but the oxygen atom always moved away from the gold site and
susceptible to dissolution. These findings strongly suggest that closer to the surface without further displacement of gold
the adsorbed O atoms are important in the place-exchange and atoms (Figure S7). This observation suggests that place
initial stages of dissolution, while OH groups do not have a exchange is primarily dictated and stabilized by surface
 2346 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

Figure 5. Formation free energy of bulk gold oxides from Au(100) and Au(111) as a function of potential on the RHE scale.

Figure 6. A schematic overview of the surface chemistry of Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces under ORR and OER conditions as a function of
electrode potential.

coverage rather than potential on Au(111) or that larger important in the Au-catalyzed OER as well as the dissolution of
structural changes, such as the extraction of multiple Au atoms, Au(100). Unlike Au(100), Au(111) does not exhibit more
are needed for the potential-controlled mechanism to be pronounced place-exchange behavior as the potential increases
operational. Overall, these findings show how the surface from 1.4 to 2 VRHE and only a moderate increase in the surface
coverage and potential may lead to mechanistic differences in concentration of OH and O species is observed instead. This
the initial stages of Au(100) and Au(111) oxidation and suggests that Au(111) is more stable against surface oxidation
dissolution. than Au(100).
 At potentials above ∼1.4 VRHE both Au(100) and Au(111) The high oxygen coverage on Au(100) and the place-
surfaces become oxidized as shown in Figures 1−3. Between exchange observed above 1.6 VRHE prompted us to consider
1.4 and 1.6 VRHE, the Au(100) surface exhibits the same OH the formation of bulk gold oxides or oxide films. Both scenarios
coverage (8OH) as observed in the 1.2−1.4 VRHE range; are consistent with the place exchange acting as a precursor to
however, at the higher potentials, the topmost gold atoms are the development of bulk-like oxides. To explore this
pulled up more from their lattice sites. At even higher hypothesis, we employ the CHE approach to evaluate the
potentials between 1.6 and 2.0 VRHE, Au(100) develops a high thermodynamics of oxidizing Au(111) and Au(100) to bulk
oxygen coverage (8O) and a pronounced place-exchange Au2O3 and Au2O under the OER-relevant conditions. Because
behavior is observed as gold and oxygen atoms swap places and previous studies57,58 indicate that metallic gold is oxidized to
oxygen penetrates even into the subsurface region. This an AuIII oxidation state under OER conditions, Au2O3 and
observation suggests that, under highly oxidizing conditions, Au2O were selected as representative gold oxides. However, it
Au(100) forms complex surface oxides, which are likely is important to note that other gold oxides may also form
 2347 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

under these conditions, as suggested by Pourbaix diagrams.24 Au(100) has a high OH coverage, which leads to the lifting of
As shown in Figure 5, both Au(100) and Au(111) surfaces Au from the surface. At even higher potentials above 1.6 VRHE,
undergo bulk oxidation at potentials above 1.4 VRHE and both the entire Au(100) is covered by O adsorbates, which also
surfaces transform to Au2O3. Under even more reducing penetrate the Au surface through a place-exchange mechanism;
conditions, Au2O is formed at around 1.7 VRHE. These findings the resulting highly rugged structure is expected to be highly
indicate that, deep in the OER region, either bulk oxide or susceptible to dissolution. Above 1.4 V RHE , Au(111)
thick oxide layers can form in addition to near-surface oxides. accumulates a modest coverage of OH and a small coverage
Furthermore, it is expected that the OER is catalyzed by of O adsorbates, which leads to lifting of the gold atoms
surface oxides, bulk-like gold oxides, or possibly both, rather through a place-exchange-like mechanism.
than by metallic gold. This is consistent with previously At potentials above 1.4 VRHE, both surfaces can transform to
reported experimental observations for gold-based catalysts.57 a bulk Au2O3 oxide, which marks the onset of the OER and
 Overview of Gold Electrodes under ORR and OER electrochemical degradation. As Au dissolution is observed to
Conditions. Our results on the surface chemistry of Au(111) start at ∼1.5 VRHE,57,58,60,61 the dissolution is very likely driven
and Au(100) under ORR and OER conditions are summarized by the formation of surface and bulk oxides. As gold becomes
in Figure 6. This figure shows that the potential-dependent OER active at ∼2.0 VRHE, the actual catalytically active gold
surface chemistry of gold is governed by a complex sequence of species are most likely the bulk and surface oxides, which
varying adsorption processes, place-exchange, bulk oxide catalyze OER through a lattice oxygen or oxide decomposition
formation, OER, and dissolution. mechanism.57,58
 At low potentials between 0.0 and 0.4 VRHE, both Au(111)
and Au(100) surfaces are either pristine (“empty”) or have a
small hydrogen coverage. In the ORR region, ∼0.6−1.1 VRHE,
 ■ CONCLUSIONS
 In this work, we have used explicitly potential-dependent grand
both facets have a modest coverage of OH species. The canonical DFT simulations to systematically explore the
adsorbed OH is expected to play a key role in the ORR activity surface chemistry of Au(111) and Au(100) electrodes under
and selectivity because it (1) can block ORR active sites, (2) the ORR and the OER conditions. Our primary goals were to
can act as a hydrogen (bond) donor or acceptor, and (3) resolve how the surface coverage and electrode properties
controls the potential of zero charge and thereby the surface depend on the electrode potential and pH and to use this
charge. Notably, OOH* is not among the thermodynamically understanding as the first step toward understanding the
most stable surface structures, which questions their role as the precise atomistic mechanisms of gold-catalyzed ORR and the
underlying reason for the 4e-ORR activity of on Au(100). OER as well as electrode stability under oxidizing conditions.
Overall, the surface phase diagrams of Au(111) and Au(100) We found that, under ORR conditions, both surfaces exhibit
are very similar in the ORR region, and major differences are moderate, 1/3-2/3 ML OH* coverage. The pH and OH
found only in the pH- and coverage-dependent PZC and coverage were found to significantly impact the surface charge
surface charge, which are key factors in ORR.21 In general, the and the potential of zero charge of the surfaces, which makes
higher pHs and coverages make the PZC more negative, and the electrodes negatively charged under the reaction
under most conditions, the PZC is above the ORR potential. conditions. In agreement with the recent experiments by
The only exception is the Au(100) surface under acidic Bender et. al.,21 we also expect that the surface charge will have
conditions, for which the PZC is below the ORR potential a key role in defining the properties of the electrochemical Au
range and the surface is positively charged under ORR interface and the differing activity and selectivity of Au(111)
conditions. Because the O2 adsorption becomes stronger on and Au(100) electrodes towards the 2e− and 4e− ORR,
more negatively charged surfaces16,37 and because ORR respectively. This proposition differs from previous explan-
kinetics are faster on a more negatively charged surface,6 the ations where the field-induced stability of OOH* has been
pH- and coverage-dependent PZC and surface charge are proposed as the underlying reason for Au(100)’s 4e−-ORR
expected to control the activity and selectivity of ORR.21 As activity and selectivity; our results show that the OOH*
both the surface charge and the OH coverage significantly intermediate is not among the thermodynamically most stable
influence the surface and electrochemical properties of gold in adsorbates under ORR conditions, which indicates that
the ORR region, they need to be explicitly considered in future previous 4e−-ORR mechanisms on Au(100) involving a highly
experimental and computational studies. stable OOH* species may need to be revisited. Overall, our
 As the electrode potential increases above 1.1−1.4 VRHE, the results underline the importance of OH coverage on the
OH coverage saturates and mixed OH/O surface coverages are electrochemical properties of gold and Au-catalyzed ORR, and
observed. These mixed coverages trigger surface restructuring, they highlight that the potential-dependent OH coverage
and on Au(111), an initial place-exchange between O and Au needs to be carefully considered in computational and
atoms of the two species is observed; this rugged structure is experimental studies.
likely susceptible toward surface dissolution. The restructuring At higher electrode potentials of ∼1.1−1.6 VRHE, both
and place-exchange of Au(111) occur under less oxidizing Au(111) and Au(100) surfaces undergo significant surface
potentials under alkaline conditions due to the earlier onset of oxidation and structural deformation. At these potentials, both
mixed OH/O phases at lower potentials. On Au(100), the surfaces have either a high OH or a mixed OH+O coverage,
surface degradation is mainly driven by Au extraction or lifting. which leads to the lifting of Au atoms from the surface. We
Our results also imply that the Au(111) restructuring and propose that the experimentally observed initiation of gold
possible dissolution are driven mostly by the surface coverage dissolution in this potential range results from the formation of
while the same processes on Au(100) are more sensitive these rugged OH+O surfaces. At potentials above 1.6 VRHE,
toward the electrode potential. both surfaces are predicted to form bulk-like oxide phases
 At potentials above 1.4 VRHE, both surfaces can undergo (Au2O3) and/or surface oxides. The formation of these oxides
both surface and bulk oxidation. Between 1.4 and 1.6 VRHE, coincides with the onset of the OER activity but pronounced
 2348 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

gold dissolution. These findings suggest that gold’s OER (2) Jiao, K.; Xuan, J.; Du, Q.; Bao, Z.; Xie, B.; Wang, B.; Zhao, Y.;
activity and dissolution are due to the formation of surface and Fan, L.; Wang, H.; Hou, Z. others Designing the next generation of
bulk oxides. proton-exchange membrane fuel cells. Nature 2021, 595, 361−369.
 Overall, building upon detailed atomistic modeling and (3) Yang, Y.; Peltier, C. R.; Zeng, R.; Schimmenti, R.; Li, Q.; Huang,
 X.; Yan, Z.; Potsi, G.; Selhorst, R.; Lu, X.; et al. Electrocatalysis in
potential-dependent simulations, our study establishes a
 alkaline media and alkaline membrane-based energy technologies.
comprehensive framework that links surface coverage, Chem. Rev. 2022, 122, 6117−6321.
electrode potential, and pH with the structural evolution and (4) Ramaswamy, N.; Mukerjee, S. Alkaline anion-exchange
electrochemical response of gold electrodes. This integrated membrane fuel cells: challenges in electrocatalysis and interfacial
understanding sheds light on the nuanced surface chemistry of charge transfer. Chem. Rev. 2019, 119, 11945−11979.
gold electrodes under conditions relevant to oxygen reduction (5) Katsounaros, I.; Cherevko, S.; Zeradjanin, A. R.; Mayrhofer, K. J.
and evolution reactions (ORR/OER) as well as the onset of J. Oxygen Electrochemistry as a Cornerstone for Sustainable Energy
gold oxidation and dissolution. Conversion. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 102−121.
 (6) Kumeda, T.; Laverdure, L.; Honkala, K.; Melander, M. M.;

■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT
Data Availability Statement
 Sakaushi, K. Cations determine the mechanism and selectivity of
 alkaline oxygen reduction reaction on Pt (111). Angewandte Chemie
 2023, 135, No. e202312841.
The structural data obtained in this study are openly available (7) Yasin, G.; Ali, S.; Ibraheem, S.; Kumar, A.; Tabish, M.; Mushtaq,
at the University of Jyväskylä’s gitlab page: https://gitlab.jyu. M. A.; Ajmal, S.; Arif, M.; Khan, M. A.; Saad, A. others
fi/mamimela/auoxidation. Simultaneously engineering the synergistic-effects and coordination-
 environment of dual-single-atomic iron/cobalt-sites as a bifunctional
*
sı Supporting Information
 oxygen electrocatalyst for rechargeable zinc-air batteries. ACS Catal.
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at 2023, 13, 2313−2325.
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202. (8) Chatenet, M.; Pollet, B. G.; Dekel, D. R.; Dionigi, F.; Deseure, J.;
 Millet, P.; Braatz, R. D.; Bazant, M. Z.; Eikerling, M.; Staffell, I.;
 Theory of grand-canonical ensemble DFT simulations, Balcombe, P.; Shao-Horn, Y.; Schäfer, H. Water electrolysis: from
 O/OH/OOH/H adsorption thermodynamics, simulated textbook knowledge to the latest scientific strategies and industrial
 voltammograms, additional results, computational hy- developments. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2022, 51, 4583−4762.
 drogen electrode DFT (CHE-DFT) simulations, hydro- (9) Luo, M.; Sun, W.; Xu, B. B.; Pan, H.; Jiang, Y. Interface
 gen coverage, discussion on the computed accuracy of engineering of air electrocatalysts for rechargeable zinc−air batteries.
 PZC values and comparison with experiments, and Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2002762.
 discussion on the accuracy of DFT-computed adsorp- (10) Wang, L.; Holewinski, A.; Wang, C. Prospects of platinum-
 tion energies (PDF) based nanostructures for the electrocatalytic reduction of oxygen. ACS
 Catal. 2018, 8, 9388−9398.

■ AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Author
 (11) Greeley, J.; Stephens, I.; Bondarenko, A.; Johansson, T. P.;
 Hansen, H. A.; Jaramillo, T.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, I.; Nørskov,
 J. K. Alloys of platinum and early transition metals as oxygen
 reduction electrocatalysts. Nature Chem. 2009, 1, 552−556.
 Marko M. Melander − Department of Chemistry, Nanoscience (12) Huang, L.; Zaman, S.; Tian, X.; Wang, Z.; Fang, W.; Xia, B. Y.
 Center, University of Jyväskylä, FI-40014 Jyväskylä, Finland; Advanced platinum-based oxygen reduction electrocatalysts for fuel
 orcid.org/0000-0001-7111-1603; cells. Accounts of chemical research 2021, 54, 311−322.
 Email: marko.m.melander@jyu.fi (13) Zhao, L.; Yan, R.; Mao, B.; Paul, R.; Duan, W.; Dai, L.; Hu, C.
 Advanced Nanocarbons Toward two-Electron Oxygen Electrode
Author Reactions for H2O2 Production and Integrated Energy Conversion.
 Kayvan Moradi − Department of Chemistry, Nanoscience Small 2024, 20, 2403029.
 Center, University of Jyväskylä, FI-40014 Jyväskylä, (14) Rodriguez, P.; Koper, M. T. Electrocatalysis on gold. Physical
 Finland; orcid.org/0009-0009-1647-452X Chemistry Chemical Physics 2014, 16, 13583−13594.
 (15) Mao, X.; Wang, L.; Li, Y. Understanding pH-Dependent
Complete contact information is available at: Oxygen Reduction Reaction on Metal Alloy Catalysts. ACS Catal.
https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202 2024, 14, 5429−5435.
 (16) Dudzinski, A. M.; Diesen, E.; Heenen, H. H.; Bukas, V. J.;
Notes Reuter, K. First step of the oxygen reduction reaction on Au (111): a
The authors declare no competing financial interest. computational study of O2 adsorption at the electrified metal/water
 interface. ACS Catal. 2023, 13, 12074−12081.

■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The work was supported by the Academy of Finland through
 (17) Duan, Z.; Henkelman, G. Theoretical resolution of the
 exceptional oxygen reduction activity of Au (100) in alkaline media.
 ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 5567−5573.
project #338228. M.M.M. was also supported by the Central (18) Kulkarni, A.; Siahrostami, S.; Patel, A.; Nørskov, J. K.
Finland Mobility Foundation, Cefmof. The computational Understanding catalytic activity trends in the oxygen reduction
resources were provided by the CSC-IT Center for Science, reaction. Chem. Rev. 2018, 118, 2302−2312.
Espoo, Finland (https://www.csc.fi/en/) and the FGCI− (19) Orellana, W.; Zuniga, C.; Gatica, A.; Ureta-Zanartu, M.-S.;
Finnish Grid and Cloud Infrastructure. Zagal, J. H.; Tasca, F. Effect of electrolyte media on the catalysis of Fe
 Phthalocyanine toward the oxygen reduction reaction: ab initio

■ REFERENCES
 (1) Moradi, K.; Ashrafi, M.; Salimi, A.; Melander, M. M. Hierarchical
 molecular dynamics simulations and experimental analyses. ACS
 Catal. 2022, 12, 12786−12799.
 (20) Wang, L.; Tang, Z.; Yan, W.; Yang, H.; Wang, Q.; Chen, S.
MoS2@NiFeCo-Mo(doped)-Layered Double Hydroxide Hetero- Porous Carbon-Supported Gold Nanoparticles for Oxygen Reduction
structures as Efficient Alkaline Water Splitting (Photo)Electro- Reaction: Effects of Nanoparticle Size. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces
catalysts. Small 2025, 21, 2409097. 2016, 8, 20635−20641.

 2349 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

 (21) Bender, J. T.; Sanspeur, R. Y.; Valles, A. E.; Uvodich, A. K.; (40) Vassilev, P.; Koper, M. T. Electrochemical reduction of oxygen
Milliron, D. J.; Kitchin, J. R.; Resasco, J. The potential of zero total on gold surfaces: a density functional theory study of intermediates
charge predicts cation effects for the oxygen reduction reaction. ACS and reaction paths. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 2607−2613.
Energy Lett. 2024, 9, 4724−4733. (41) Yang, X.; Bhowmik, A.; Vegge, T.; Hansen, H. A. Neural
 (22) Melander, M. M. Grand Canonical Rate Theory for network potentials for accelerated metadynamics of oxygen reduction
Electrochemical and Electrocatalytic Systems I: General Formulation kinetics at Au−water interfaces. Chem. Sci. 2023, 14, 3913−3922.
and Proton-coupled Electron Transfer Reactions. J. Electrochem. Soc. (42) Li, Y.; Liu, B.-Y.; Chen, Y.; Liu, Z.-F. From 2e− to 4e−
2020, 167, 116518. pathway in the alkaline oxygen reduction reaction on Au(100):
 (23) Ignaczak, A.; Nazmutdinov, R.; Goduljan, A.; de Campos Pinto, Kinetic circumvention of the volcano curve. J. Chem. Phys. 2024, 160,
L. M.; Juarez, F.; Quaino, P.; Belletti, G.; Santos, E.; Schmickler, W. 244705.
Oxygen reduction in alkaline media�a discussion. Electrocatalysis (43) Domínguez-Flores, F.; Melander, M. M. Approximating
2017, 8, 554−564. constant potential DFT with canonical DFT and electrostatic
 (24) Pourbaix, M. Atlas of electrochemical equilibria in aqueous corrections. J. Chem. Phys. 2023, 158, 144701.
solutions; NACE, 1966. (44) Nauman, J. A.; Suvlu, D.; Willard, A. P. Electric Fields at Solid-
 (25) Kumeda, T.; Kondo, K.; Tanaka, S.; Sakata, O.; Hoshi, N.; Liquid Interfaces: Insights from Molecular Dynamics Simulation.
Nakamura, M. Surface Extraction Process During Initial Oxidation of Annual Review of Physical Chemistry 2025, 76, 181−202.
Pt (111): Effect of Hydrophilic/Hydrophobic Cations in Alkaline (45) Cherevko, S. Stability and dissolution of electrocatalysts:
Media. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024, 146, 10312−10320. Building the bridge between model and “real world” systems. Current
 (26) Fuchs, T.; Briega-Martos, V.; Fehrs, J. O.; Qiu, C.; Mirolo, M.; Opinion in Electrochemistry 2018, 8, 118−125.
Yuan, C.; Cherevko, S.; Drnec, J.; Magnussen, O. M.; Harrington, D. (46) Meharban, F.; Lin, C.; Wu, X.; Tan, L.; Wang, H.; Hu, W.;
A. Driving force of the initial step in electrochemical Pt (111) Zhou, D.; Li, X.; Luo, W. Scaling Up Stability: Navigating from Lab
oxidation. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2023, 14, 3589−3593. Insights to Robust Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysts for Industrial
 (27) Duan, Z.; Henkelman, G. Atomic-scale mechanisms of Water Electrolysis. Adv. Energy Mater. 2024, 14, 2402886.
electrochemical Pt dissolution. ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 14439−14447. (47) Kolle-Görgen, E.; Fortunato, G.; Ledendecker, M. Catalyst
 (28) Fuchs, T.; Drnec, J.; Calle-Vallejo, F.; Stubb, N.; Sandbeck, D. Stability in Aqueous Electrochemistry. Chem. Mater. 2022, 34,
J.; Ruge, M.; Cherevko, S.; Harrington, D. A.; Magnussen, O. M. 10223−10236.
Structure dependency of the atomic-scale mechanisms of platinum (48) Ehlers, J. C.; Feidenhans’l, A. A.; Therkildsen, K. T.; Larrazábal,
electro-oxidation and dissolution. Nature Catalysis 2020, 3, 754−761. G. O. Affordable Green Hydrogen from Alkaline Water Electrolysis:
 (29) Strbac, S.; Adz̆ić, R. The influence of OH- chemisorption on Key Research Needs from an Industrial Perspective. ACS Energy Lett.
the catalytic properties of gold single crystal surfaces for oxygen 2023, 8, 1502−1509.
reduction in alkaline solutions. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry (49) Edgington, J.; Seitz, L. C. Advancing the Rigor and
1996, 403, 169−181. Reproducibility of Electrocatalyst Stability Benchmarking and
 (30) Lu, F.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, S.; Lu, D.; Su, D.; Liu, M.; Zhang, Y.; Intrinsic Material Degradation Analysis for Water Oxidation. ACS
Liu, P.; Wang, J. X.; Adzic, R. R. others Surface proton transfer Catal. 2023, 13, 3379−3394.
promotes four-electron oxygen reduction on gold nanocrystal surfaces (50) Ehelebe, K.; Escalera-López, D.; Cherevko, S. Limitations of
in alkaline solution. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 7310−7317. aqueous model systems in the stability assessment of electrocatalysts
 (31) Kim, J.; Gewirth, A. A. Mechanism of oxygen electroreduction for oxygen reactions in fuel cell and electrolyzers. Current Opinion in
on gold surfaces in basic media. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 2565− Electrochemistry 2021, 29, 100832.
2571. (51) Ouimet, R. J.; Glenn, J. R.; De Porcellinis, D.; Motz, A. R.;
 (32) Diesen, E.; Dudzinski, A. M.; Reuter, K.; Bukas, V. J. Origin of Carmo, M.; Ayers, K. E. The Role of Electrocatalysts in the
Electrocatalytic Selectivity during the Oxygen Reduction Reaction on Development of Gigawatt-Scale PEM Electrolyzers. ACS Catal. 2022,
Au(111). ACS Catal. 2025, 15, 5403−5411. 12, 6159−6171.
 (33) Dudzinski, A. M.; Diesen, E.; Reuter, K.; Bukas, V. J. Oxygen (52) Shih, A. J.; et al. Water electrolysis. Nature Reviews Methods
Adsorption at the Electrochemical Metal/Water Interface: Au(111) vs Primers 2022, 2, 84.
Pt(111). J. Phys. Chem. C 2024, 128, 20886−20894. (53) Binninger, T.; Moss, G. C.; Rajan, Z. S. H. S.; Mohamed, R.;
 (34) Behjati, S.; Koper, M. T. M. Effect of Trace Amounts of Eikerling, M. H. How to Break the Activity-Stability Conundrum in
Chloride on Roughening of Au(111) Single-Crystal Electrode Surface Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysis: Mechanistic Insights. ChemCatCh-
in Sulfuric Acid Solution during Oxidation−Reduction Cycles. ACS em. 2024, 16, No. e202400567.
Electrochemistry 2025, 1, 1082. (54) Zeradjanin, A. R.; Lim, A.; Spanos, I.; Masa, J. What Limits
 (35) Quaino, P.; Luque, N. B.; Nazmutdinov, R.; Santos, E.; Conquest of Stability Descriptors? − Intriguing Aspects of
Schmickler, W. Why is gold such a good catalyst for oxygen reduction Dissolution of Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysts. ChemElectroChem.
in alkaline media? Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2012, 51 (52), 12997− 2024, 11, No. e202300832.
13000. (55) Zeng, F.; Mebrahtu, C.; Liao, L.; Beine, A. K.; Palkovits, R.
 (36) Ignaczak, A.; Santos, E.; Schmickler, W. Oxygen reduction Stability and deactivation of OER electrocatalysts: A review. J. Energy
reaction on gold in alkaline solutions - The inner or outer sphere Chem. 2022, 69, 301−329.
mechanisms in the light of recent achievements. Curr. Opin. (56) Wang, Q.; Cheng, Y.; Tao, H. B.; Liu, Y.; Ma, X.; Li, D.-S.;
Electrochem. 2019, 14, 180−185. Yang, H. B.; Liu, B. Long-Term Stability Challenges and
 (37) Li, Y.; Liu, B.-Y.; Chen, Y.; Liu, Z.-F. From 2e- to 4e- pathway Opportunities in Acidic Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysis. Angew.
in the alkaline oxygen reduction reaction on Au (100): Kinetic Chem., Int. Ed. 2023, 62, No. e202216645.
circumvention of the volcano curve. J. Chem. Phys. 2024, 160, 244705. (57) Diaz-Morales, O.; Calle-Vallejo, F.; de Munck, C.; Koper, M. T.
 (38) Mei, D.; He, Z. D.; Zheng, Y. L.; Jiang, D. C.; Chen, Y.-X. Electrochemical water splitting by gold: evidence for an oxide
Mechanistic and kinetic implications on the ORR on a Au(100) decomposition mechanism. Chemical Science 2013, 4, 2334−2343.
electrode: pH, temperature and H−D kinetic isotope effects. Phys. (58) Cherevko, S.; Zeradjanin, A. R.; Keeley, G. P.; Mayrhofer, K. J.
Chem. Chem. Phys. 2014, 16, 13762−13773. J. A Comparative Study on Gold and Platinum Dissolution in Acidic
 (39) Kelly, S. R.; Kirk, C.; Chan, K.; Nørskov, J. K. Electric field and Alkaline Media. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2014, 161, H822.
effects in oxygen reduction kinetics: rationalizing pH dependence at (59) Stojanovski, K.; Briega-Martos, V.; Zlatar, M.; Göllner, C.;
the Pt (111), Au (111), and Au (100) electrodes. J. Phys. Chem. C Cherevko, S. pH Dependence of Noble Metals Dissolution: Gold.
2020, 124, 14581−14591. ChemElectroChem. 2024, 11, No. e202400373.

 2350 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

 (60) Pfisterer, J. H.; Nattino, F.; Zhumaev, U. E.; Breiner, M.; Feliu, constant ion and electrode potentials. J. Chem. Phys. 2019, 150,
J. M.; Marzari, N.; Domke, K. F. Role of OH intermediates during the 041706.
Au oxide electro-reduction at low pH elucidated by electrochemical (79) Davey, W. P. Precision Measurements of the Lattice Constants
surface-enhanced raman spectroscopy and implicit solvent density of Twelve Common Metals. Phys. Rev. 1925, 25, 753−761.
functional theory. ACS catalysis 2020, 10, 12716−12726. (80) Exner, K. S. Constrained Ab Initio Thermodynamics:
 (61) Stojanovski, K.; Briega-Martos, V.; Zlatar, M.; Göllner, C.; Transferring the Concept of Surface Pourbaix Diagrams in Electro-
Cherevko, S. pH Dependence of Noble Metals Dissolution: Gold. catalysis to Electrode Materials in Lithium-Ion Batteries. ChemElec-
ChemElectroChem. 2024, 11, No. e202400373. troChem. 2017, 4, 3231−3237.
 (62) Cherevko, S.; Topalov, A. A.; Zeradjanin, A. R.; Katsounaros, I.; (81) Hagopian, A.; Doublet, M.-L.; Filhol, J.-S.; Binninger, T.
Mayrhofer, K. J. J. Gold dissolution: towards understanding of noble Advancement of the Homogeneous Background Method for the
metal corrosion. RSC Adv. 2013, 3, 16516−16527. Computational Simulation of Electrochemical Interfaces. J. Chem.
 (63) Stumm, C.; Grau, S.; Speck, F. D.; Hilpert, F.; Briega-Martos, Theory Comput. 2022, 18, 1883−1893.
V.; Mayrhofer, K.; Cherevko, S.; Brummel, O.; Libuda, J. Reduction (82) Liu, R. Adsorption and dissociation of H2O on Au(111)
of oxide layers on Au (111): the interplay between reduction rate, surface: A DFT study. Computational and Theoretical Chemistry 2013,
dissolution, and restructuring. J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 22698− 1019, 141−145.
22704. (83) Huzayyin, A.; Chang, J. H.; Lian, K.; Dawson, F. Interaction of
 (64) Nørskov, J. K.; Rossmeisl, J.; Logadottir, A.; Lindqvist, L.;
 Water Molecule with Au(111) and Au(110) Surfaces under the
Kitchin, J. R.; Bligaard, T.; Jonsson, H. Origin of the overpotential for
 Influence of an External Electric Field. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118,
oxygen reduction at a fuel-cell cathode. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108,
 3459−3470.
17886−17892.
 (84) Nørskov, J. K.; et al. Origin of the Overpotential for Oxygen
 (65) Levell, Z.; Le, J.; Yu, S.; Wang, R.; Ethirajan, S.; Rana, R.;
Kulkarni, A.; Resasco, J.; Lu, D.; Cheng, J. others Emerging Atomistic Reduction at a Fuel-Cell Cathode. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 17886.
Modeling Methods for Heterogeneous Electrocatalysis. Chem. Rev. (85) Christensen, R.; Hummelshøj, J. S.; Hansen, H. A.; Vegge, T.
2024, 124, 8620−8656. Reducing Systematic Errors in Oxide Species with Density Functional
 (66) Moradi, K.; Melander, M. M. Electronic structure methods for Theory Calculations. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015, 119, 17596−17601.
simulating the applied potential in semiconductor electrochemistry. (86) Urrego-Ortiz, R.; Builes, S.; Illas, F.; Calle-Vallejo, F. Gas-phase
Current Opinion in Electrochemistry 2025, 49, 101615. errors in computational electrocatalysis: a review. EES Catal. 2024, 2,
 (67) Patel, D. M.; Kastlunger, G. Non-Nernstian Effects in 157−179.
Theoretical Electrocatalysis. Chem. Rev. 2025, 125, 3378−3400. (87) Sargeant, E.; Illas, F.; Rodríguez, P.; Calle-Vallejo, F.
 (68) Patel, D. M.; Tripathi, A.; Ocampo-Restrepo, V. K.; Kastlunger, Importance of the gas-phase error correction for O2 when using
G. Electrocatalysis beyond the reversible hydrogen electrode. Current DFT to model the oxygen reduction and evolution reactions. Journal
Opinion in Electrochemistry 2025, 49, 101611. of Electroanalytical Chemistry 2021, 896, 115178.
 (69) Verma, A. M.; Laverdure, L.; Melander, M. M.; Honkala, K. (88) Martínez, J. I.; Hansen, H. A.; Rossmeisl, J.; Nørskov, J. K.
Mechanistic Origins of the pH Dependency in Au-Catalyzed Glycerol Formation energies of rutile metal dioxides using density functional
Electro-oxidation: Insight from First-Principles Calculations. ACS theory. Phys. Rev. B 2009, 79, 045120.
Catal. 2022, 12, 662−675. (89) Christensen, R.; Hansen, H. A.; Dickens, C. F.; Nørskov, J. K.;
 (70) Mortensen, J. J.; et al. GPAW: An open Python package for Vegge, T. Functional Independent Scaling Relation for ORR/OER
electronic structure calculations. J. Chem. Phys. 2024, 160, 092503. Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 24910−24916.
 (71) Hjorth Larsen, A.; Jørgen Mortensen, J.; Blomqvist, J.; Castelli, (90) Hensley, A. J.; Ghale, K.; Rieg, C.; Dang, T.; Anderst, E.; Studt,
I. E; Christensen, R.; Dułak, M.; Friis, J.; Groves, M. N; Hammer, F.; Campbell, C. T.; McEwen, J.-S.; Xu, Y. DFT-based method for
B.ør.; Hargus, C.; Hermes, E. D; Jennings, P. C; Bjerre Jensen, P.; more accurate adsorption energies: an adaptive sum of energies from
Kermode, J.; Kitchin, J. R; Leonhard Kolsbjerg, E.; Kubal, J.; RPBE and vdW density functionals. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017, 121,
Kaasbjerg, K.; Lysgaard, S.; Bergmann Maronsson, J.; Maxson, T.; 4937−4945.
Olsen, T.; Pastewka, L.; Peterson, A.; Rostgaard, C.; Schiøtz, J.; (91) Mom, R. V.; Melissen, S. T.; Sautet, P.; Frenken, J. W.;
Schutt, O.; Strange, M.; Thygesen, K. S; Vegge, T.; Vilhelmsen, L.; Steinmann, S. N.; Groot, I. M. The pressure gap for thiols:
Walter, M.; Zeng, Z.; Jacobsen, K. W; et al. The atomic simulation Methanethiol self-assembly on Au (111) from vacuum to 1 bar. J.
environment�a Python library for working with atoms. J. Phys.: Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 12382−12389.
Condens. Matter 2017, 29, 273002. (92) Häkkinen, H. The gold−sulfur interface at the nanoscale.
 (72) Kastlunger, G.; Lindgren, P.; Peterson, A. A. Controlled- Nature Chem. 2012, 4, 443−455.
Potential Simulation of Elementary Electrochemical Reactions: (93) Cheng, D.; Nguyen, K.-L. C.; Sumaria, V.; Wei, Z.; Zhang, Z.;
Proton Discharge on Metal Surfaces. J. Phys. Chem. C 2018, 122, Gee, W.; Li, Y.; Morales-Guio, C. G.; Heyde, M.; Roldan Cuenya, B.;
12771.
 Alexandrova, A. N.; Sautet, P. Structure Sensitivity and Catalyst
 (73) Trasatti, S. The absolute electrode potential: The end of the
 Restructuring for CO2 Electro-reduction on Copper. Nat. Commun.
story. Electrochim. Acta 1990, 35, 269−271.
 (74) Perdew, J. P.; Burke, K.; Ernzerhof, M. Generalized Gradient 2025, 16, 4064.
Approximation Made Simple. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996, 77, 3865−3868. (94) Du, X.; Liu, M.; Peng, J.; Chun, H.; Hoffman, A.; Yildiz, B.; Li,
 (75) Tkatchenko, A.; Scheffler, M. Accurate Molecular Van Der L.; Bazant, M. Z.; Gómez-Bombarelli, R. Accelerating and Enhancing
Waals Interactions from Ground-State Electron Density and Free- Thermodynamic Simulations of Electrochemical Interfaces. ACS
Atom Reference Data. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2009, 102, 073005. Central Science 2025; DOI: 10.1021/acscentsci.5c00547.
 (76) Ruiz, V. G.; Liu, W.; Zojer, E.; Scheffler, M.; Tkatchenko, A. (95) Melander, M. M.; Wu, T.; Weckman, T.; Honkala, K. Constant
Density-Functional Theory with Screened van der Waals Interactions inner potential DFT for modelling electrochemical systems under
for the Modeling of Hybrid Inorganic-Organic Systems. Phys. Rev. constant potential and bias. npj Computational Materials 2024, 10, 5.
Lett. 2012, 108, 146103. (96) Strbac, S.; Adzić, R. The influence of OH- chemisorption on
 (77) Held, A.; Walter, M. Simplified continuum solvent model with the catalytic properties of gold single crystal surfaces for oxygen
a smooth cavity based on volumetric data. J. Chem. Phys. 2014, 141, reduction in alkaline solutions. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry
174108. 1996, 403, 169−181.
 (78) Melander, M. M.; Kuisma, M. J.; Christensen, T. E. K.; (97) Hamelin, A. Cyclic voltammetry at gold single-crystal surfaces.
Honkala, K. Grand-canonical approach to density functional theory of Part 1. Behaviour at low-index faces. Journal of Electroanalytical
electrocatalytic systems: Thermodynamics of solid-liquid interfaces at Chemistry 1996, 407, 1−11.

 2351 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352
ACS Electrochemistry pubs.acs.org/electrochem Article

 (98) Srejić, I.; Smiljanić, M.; Rakočević, Z.; Š trbac, S. Oxygen
Reduction on Au(100)-like Polycrystalline Gold Electrode in Alkaline
Solution. Int. J. Electrochem. Sci. 2016, 11, 10436−10448.
 (99) Adnan, A.; Behjati, S.; Félez-Guerrero, N.; Ojha, K.; Koper, M.
T. Tracking the surface structure and the influence of cations and
anions on the double-layer region of a Au (111) electrode. Physical
Chemistry Chemical Physics 2024, 26, 21419−21428.
 (100) Blizanac, B. B.; Lucas, C. A.; Gallagher, M. E.; Arenz, M.;
Ross, P. N.; Marković, N. M. Anion Adsorption, CO Oxidation, and
Oxygen Reduction Reaction on a Au(100) Surface: The pH Effect. J.
Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 625−634.
 (101) Prieto, A.; Hernández, J.; Herrero, E.; Feliu, J. M. The role of
anions in oxygen reduction in neutral and basic media on gold single-
crystal electrodes. J. Solid State Electrochem. 2003, 7, 599−606.

 2352 https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00202
 ACS Electrochem. 2025, 1, 2338−2352