INORGANIC CHEMISTRY
 FRONTIERS

 View Article Online
 REVIEW View Journal | View Issue

 Investigation on nanostructured Cu-based
 Cite this: Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021,
 electrocatalysts for improvising water splitting:
 8, 234 a review
 Karthick Kannimuthu, *a,b Kumaravel Sangeetha,a,b Selvasundarasekar Sam Sankar,a,b
 Arun Karmakar, a,b Ragunath Madhua,b and Subrata Kundu *a,b
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 The eﬀective use of earth-abundant electrocatalyst copper in the splitting of water as nanostructures with
 diﬀerent combinations is central in replacing noble metals for the industrialization of hydrogen generation.
 Carbonaceous fuels, being front-line suppliers of energy, adversely aﬀect the environment with greenhouse
 gas emission. Considering the electrocatalytic way of splitting water, it is one of the ﬁnest ways for producing
 pure hydrogen with a fast rate with no other undesired by-products; hence, researchers across the world
 have focused maximum attention to make them commercially applicable. To replace the noble metals, tran-
 sition metal-based catalysts are promising. In this review, we have chosen to highlight solely the importance
 of Cu-based nanostructures as eﬀective electrocatalysts for both oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and
 hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Moreover, various synthetic approaches with Cu nanostructures such as
 Received 1st September 2020, mono-, bi-, and tri-metallic catalysts as oxides, hydroxides, sulﬁdes, selenides, tellurides, and phosphides
 Accepted 27th October 2020
 were studied for OER and HER in diﬀerent pH conditions. Hence, this review gives a brief understanding of
 DOI: 10.1039/d0qi01060j Cu-based nanostructures in electrocatalytic water splitting and based on this, it can be applied with other
 rsc.li/frontiers-inorganic advancements in catalysts development for viable hydrogen generation with electrocatalytic water splitting.

 1. Introduction
 Hydrogen, the so-called ‘future fuel’, has been produced with
 diﬀerent methods of approaches such as steam reforming,
 a
 Electrochemical Process Engineering (EPE) division, CSIR-Central Electrochemical
 coal gasification, partial oxidation of methane, and by water
 Research Institute (CECRI), Karaikudi-630003, Tamil Nadu, India.
 E-mail: karthickkchem@gmail.com, kundu.subrata@gmail.com, skundu@cecri.res.in
 electrolysis.1 The necessity of hydrogen is unparalleled for
 b
 Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad-201002, India meeting the energy requirements, which is mainly demanded

 K. Karthick received his B.Sc. K. Sangeetha received her B.Sc.
 degree from Government Arts degree in Chemistry (2011–2014)
 and Science College, and M.Sc. degree in Organic
 Udumalapet, India, and M.Sc. Chemistry (2014–2016) from
 degree from The American Periyar University, Salem. As she
 College, Madurai, India, in was the university topper in M.
 General Chemistry. He qualified Sc, she received the gold medal
 UGC-JRF in December-2014 and and was awarded the INSPIRE
 joined Dr Subrata Kundu’s scholarhsip (JRF) in March 2017
 research group in August 2015. by DST, New Delhi. Currently,
 He is currently working towards she is pursuing her Ph.D. under
 his Ph.D. thesis, which is mainly Dr Subrata Kundu since August
 Kannimuthu Karthick focused on electrocatalytic water Kumaravel Sangeetha 2017 in the field of size- and
 splitting applications. shape-selective synthesis of
 various transition metal nanostructures and their applications in
 energy, environment, and catalysis.

 234 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 for ammonia production (Haber process), hydrogenation pro- shown predominant results with extendable activity through
 cesses of oils and fats, production of hydrochloric acid, metha- pioneering surface modifications of the nanostructures.64
 nol production, etc.2 As of now, hydrogen is majorly produced The activities of these transition metal-based catalysts are
 by the steam reforming process and possesses its own draw- fine-tuned when they are studied as bi- and tri-metallic catalysts
 backs such as the utilization of high temperature and pressure with other less explored metals of interest.64 Recent literature
 conditions, and also the discharge of CO2 into the environ- analysis has showed the appreciable use of earth-abundant Cu-
 ment. Since fossil fuels are finite, findings other sources of based electrocatalysts for both OER and HER applications.65,66
 energy in order to obtain hydrogen in a viable way and a large Cu-Based electrocatalysts are prepared in diﬀerent ways such as
 scale with no harm to the environment is highly required cur- oxides, hydroxides, chalcogenides, phosphides, and also as
 rently for a greener world.3,4 In the above-mentioned layered double hydroxide (LDH)-based catalysts with other tran-
 approaches, water electrolysis is one of the primary ways of
 sition metal-based catalysts for both OER and HER in unique
 producing highly pure hydrogen with no carbonaceous emis-
 pH conditions.67–71 The results of Cu-based catalysts showed
 sion. When the produced hydrogen is utilized for the fuel cell,
 their potential in water splitting applications, which can be
 the by-product is just water, which makes this process as a
 further enhanced by making them as eﬀective nanostructures
 highly advantageous one compared to other methods. Since
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 via diﬀerent synthetic approaches. There is no review that has
 renewable energy sources are not rational and intermittent, it
 previously highlighted the nanostructures of Cu-based catalysts
 retards their continuous utilization.3,5
 Electrocatalytic splitting of water consists of oxygen evol- for both OER and HER. Hence, this review is devoted to the
 ution reaction (OER), which occurs at the anode and hydrogen advancements in Cu-based nanostructures in terms of the syn-
 evolution reaction (HER) that occurs at the cathode.6 As water thesis and their application in both OER and HER applications.
 is stable and poorly conductive, electrolytes that are conductive Also, in the future, with the aid of this review, one can
 such as 0.5 M H2SO4 and 1 M KOH are used. The state-of-the- easily employ Cu-based nanostructures as eﬀective supports in
 art catalysts so far are IrO2 or RuO2 as anodes and Pt as the electrocatalytic water splitting.
 cathode in the acidic environment.7–10 As they are scarce,
 developing stable earth-abundant catalysts for the extensive
 generation of hydrogen at a low cost is highly demanded con- 2. A short overview on the central
 sidering the electrocatalytic splitting of water.7,11 Recent
 findings have enabled the successful utilization of iron
 parameters in electrocatalytic water
 group metals such as Fe, Co, and Ni, and they have been splitting
 mostly explored as oxides,12,13,14–21,22–25 hydroxides,26–38 2.1. Overpotential
 phosphides,39–46 and chalcogenides6,47–58 for OER and HER at
 diﬀerent pH conditions. Recently, Ostrikov et al. reported The electrocatalytic splitting of water is a feasible method com-
 several pioneering works with transition metal-based catalysts pared to others. In general, water, with a stable octet configur-
 towards water splitting applications.59–62 However, OER in ation, is not prone to release its components as oxygen and
 acidic electrolyte is still a bottleneck for the researchers.63 hydrogen, and hence, is thermodynamically non-spontaneous
 Hence, total water splitting in alkaline conditions with with the free energy change ΔG of +237 kJ mol−1.72 The stan-
 diﬀerent kinds of 3d-transition metal-based catalysts have dard reduction potential for the evolution of hydrogen is 0 V

 S. Sam Sankar received his Arun Karmakar received his
 Masters degree in Chemistry B.Sc. degree from Derozio
 (2013–2015) from Loyola College Memorial College aﬃliated to
 aﬃliated to Madras University, West Bengal State University
 Chennai. He has cleared the (2017) and received his M.Sc.
 Joint CSIR-UGC NET exam and degree in Inorganic Chemistry
 has been awarded the UGC-JRF from the same university (2019).
 fellowship in December 2016. While pursuing his M.Sc., he
 Currently, he is pursuing his qualified the NET exam
 Ph.D. under Dr Subrata Kundu (National Eligibility Test) and
 in the field of synthesis and the obtained a JRF (Junior Research
 fine-tuning of novel metal nano- fellowship) from CSIR, New
 Selvasundarasekar Sam particles for their application in Arun Karmakar Delhi. Now, he is pursuing his
 Sankar catalysis and electrocatalysis. Ph.D. under Dr Subrata Kundu
 at CSIR-CECRI since August 2019. His Ph.D. thesis work is mainly
 focused on the synthesis of nanostructured materials for catalysis,
 electrocatalysis, and SERS application.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 235
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 vs. RHE, whereas it is 1.23 V for the evolution of oxygen. step, which is called the Volmer step, followed by hydrogen de-
 Hence, the theoretical potential needed to split water is 1.23 V. sorption from the electrode surface either by electrochemical de-
 sorption, which is called the ‘Volmer–Heyrovsky’ step, or by the
 H2 O ! H2 þ 1=2O2 E° ¼ 1:23 V vs: RHE ð1Þ chemical desorption, which is called the ‘Volmer–Tafel’ step.6 It
 depends on the exposed active surface area, which mainly deter-
 However, with the assisted resistances such as circuit, elec- mines whether the working electrode undergoes chemical or
 trode, electrolyte, distance, and conductivity, and also the electrochemical desorption. For example, with a high exposed
 kinetic steps involved in both OER and HER drag the excess surface area and optimum free energy for hydrogen adsorption
 potentials, which are all generally called as overpotentials. and desorption, platinum stands on top of the ‘Volcano plot’
 Between OER and HER, the mechanistic steps involved in OER and follows the Tafel mechanism. In both OER and HER, the
 are too complex with four-proton coupled electron transfer reac- reaction mechanism is entirely diﬀerent as shown below and
 tion and each step drags additional overpotentials. It follows varies depending on the electrolyte used. In acid, H+ ions form
 many pathways such as metal–oxide, hydroxide, or oxy-hydrox- bonds for hydrogen evolution and form H2O for oxygen evol-
 ide and it is still not clear which is followed for oxygen evol- ution. In alkali, OH− ions bond to the electrode surface for OER
 ution. The activity is dependent upon the electron density of the
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 and H2O bonds on it for HER. Hence, in alkaline conditions,
 t2g and eg orbitals of 3d-transition metals. This is attributed to OER is too facile and HER is sluggish; when considering the
 the eﬀect of –OH ions’ intercalation and O2 cleavage at the acid, it is vice versa. The equations are as follows:
 surface, which aﬀects the overall OER activity.72 The binding of In acidic medium,
 –OH group should be optimum and after the formation of O2, it
 should be cleaved eﬀectively, for which the electron density 4e þ 4Hþ ! 2H2 ðcathodic reactionÞ ð2Þ
 should be rich on the electrode. Considering these aspects, iron
 group metals (Ni, Co, and Fe) show favorable electronic con- 2H2 O ! 4Hþ þ 4e þ O2 ðanodic reactionÞ ð3Þ
 figuration for OER. In case of Cu, even though repulsion is In alkaline medium,
 favored, the electron density is large, and hence retards –OH
 interaction eﬀectively. Hence, engineering in the structures of 4e þ 4H2 O ! 4OH þ 2H2 ðcathodic reactionÞ ð4Þ
 transition metal-based catalysts is triggered with diﬀerent com-
 4OH ! 2H2 O þ 4e þ O2 ðanodic reactionÞ ð5Þ
 binations and the oxide/hydroxide phase formed during OER
 merely acts as the real catalyst surface.6 In case of HER, the Therefore, it is obvious here that bi-functional catalysts
 mechanistic steps are based on the hydrogen adsorption and de- cannot meet viable hydrogen generation with earth-abundant
 sorption phenomenon; thus, the mechanism is not complex materials, for which 3d-transition metal-based catalysts showed
 compared to that of OER. Hydrogen adsorption is the initial high rate activity for OER and HER in alkaline conditions.6,73,74

 M. Ragunath received his B.Sc. Dr Subrata Kundu received his
 degree (2014–2017) from ‘The Ph.D. from the Indian Institute
 Gandhigram Rural Institute’ of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur,
 Dindigul, India, and M.Sc. India, in early 2005. Then, he
 degree from Madras University, moved to the University of
 Chennai, India, in Analytical Nebraska, Lincoln, USA and
 Chemistry (2017–2019). He later to Texas A&M University,
 obtained the DST-Inspire fellow- College Station, Texas, USA, as a
 ship and joined under post-doc fellow (from 2005 to
 Dr Subrata Kundu’s research 2010). He is currently working as
 Group in August 2020. His Ph.D. a Principal Scientist at
 thesis work is mainly focused on CSIR-CECRI, Karaikudi, India.
 Ragunath Madhu catalysis, SERS, and electro- Subrata Kundu Dr Kundu is serving as an edi-
 catalytic water splitting torial board member of several
 applications. international journals including prestigious ‘Scientific Reports’
 from Nature publishers since 2015. Very recently, from a survey
 conducted by Stanford University, USA, Dr Kundu has been
 honoured as ‘Top 2% Scientist List’ (https://docs.google.com/
 spreadsheets/d/1mMonq947bS3KcMhsDpf_5z3H46My2t1k_
 7B3McozA68/htmlview) worlwide from India in Chemical Physics
 category having worldwide rank of 992. Dr Kundu and his co-
 workers are working in the forefront area of Materials Science with
 emphasis on energy, environment, catalysis, and electrocatalysis.

 236 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 However, the corrosive nature of the acid retards the long term such as Ni foam and Cu foam, the loading becomes huge and
 stability of these catalysts. Hence, the aim is to decrease the unavoidable.73,74 Mass activity of a catalyst can be calculated by
 dominance of overpotentials to ensure high scale splitting of
 Mass activity ¼ A=g ð7Þ
 water with lesser applied energy inputs both anodically and
 cathodically along with the high robustness of the electrode. where A is the current density at a particular overpotential and
 g is the corresponding loading of a catalyst. Therefore, correlat-
 2.2. Tafel slope ing the loading and current densities with mass activity
 The inherent transfer of electrons at the electrode/electrolyte becomes important. It also deals with normalized Cdl current
 interface is judged by the Tafel slope values. From the derived densities, suggesting that only the exposed active surface area
 Butler–Volmer equation at both higher anodic and cathodic over- participates in the concerned OER and HER studies.75 The
 potentials, it was found to follow the Tafel equation; the current relevant studies on the increase in the activities with respect to
 density j is directly proportional to the exchange current density the increased loadings to a certain limit and the subsequent
 i0 and inversely proportional to the Tafel slope b. It is given as: decrease after certain loadings can give information about the
 participation of electrocatalytically active sites. The turn over
 i ¼ i0 log ðη=bÞ ð6Þ
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 frequency (TOF) is another important parameter to judge the
 where, i is the current density, i0 is the exchange current potential of a catalyst in addition to the mass activity. It is
 density, η is the overpotential, and b is the Tafel constant. defined as the molecules of hydrogen or oxygen produced at a
 Tafel slopes can be extracted from diﬀerent methods and the single catalytically active site per unit time.75 TOF is a phenom-
 frequently used one is from the polarization curves, where the enal activity descriptor and judges the eﬃciency of a catalyst at
 logarithm of the current density is taken versus the overpoten- diﬀerent overpotentials. It is calculated by
 tial and the observed values show the Tafel slope values in mV TOF ¼ JS=nF ð8Þ
 dec−1.6 But here, as it is potentiodynamic, the current
 observed cannot be the actual one and there is a chance of dis- where, J is the current density at the defined overpotential, S is
 crepancy, which will result in deviation in the Tafel slope the active surface area calculated from either the geometrical
 values. Hence, potentiostatic analysis is precise to obtain a surface area or the electrochemically active surface area, n is
 steady state current and based on this, the static current den- the number of electrons transferred and F is the Faraday con-
 sities observed at diﬀerent overpotentials can be taken for stant. Even with loading diﬀerences, TOF gives meaningful
 deriving the Tafel slope values, which will have more accuracy results and we cannot expect high TOF for high catalyst
 compared to the potentiodynamic method. From the observed loading as all the loaded catalysts cannot be the active sites for
 Tafel slope values, the kinetics of diﬀerent electrodes can be OER/HER. TOF can be calculated from the geometrical area
 accessed for comparing their activities in addition to the over- used if we use the surface area from the redox features by com-
 potentials. This is valid as some catalysts will give higher promising only the oxidized or reduced species that have
 activity at lower overpotentials whilst some will have higher undergone the concerned OER/HER reactions. From these, the
 activity at higher overpotentials with increased current den- activities can be judged critically rather than showing the
 sities.6 This can be well understood with the Tafel slope values activity only by normalizing the geometrical area.72 Therefore,
 when extracted with diﬀerent overpotential regions. For OER, it is highly recommended to calculate the mass activity and
 if it is four-electron transfer at the interface, the value is TOF values of the catalyst while studying OER/HER.75
 observed to be closer to 30 mV dec−1 and depending upon the
 poor kinetics, the observed values are changed with the incre- 2.4. Stability
 ment in the values.73,74 Similarly, in the case of HER, the The stability of an electrocatalyst is indeed important as the
 observed Tafel slope values indicate whether the electrode robustness is required for long term utilization in electro-
 follows chemical or electrochemical desorption. If the value is catalytic water splitting. It can be verified via both potentio-
 nearly 30 mV dec−1, it is Tafel mechanism and follows chemi- static analyses such as chronoamperometry ( potential is static
 cal desorption, as observed in the case of Pt-based catalysts. and current is monitored as a function of time), chronopoten-
 Hence, from the Tafel slope values, one can easily find the tiometry (current is static and potential is monitored as a func-
 charge transfer kinetics; it is always better to go for potentio- tion of time), and potentiodynamic analysis such as cyclic vol-
 static analysis to extract the log current densities for observing tammetry at high scan rates in the range from 1000 to 5000
 the appropriate Tafel slope values and relating them to the kine- cycles.72 A negligible diﬀerence in the activities before and
 tics of the working electrodes in the chosen OER/HER study.73,74 after the stability studies ensures the stable nature of the cata-
 lysts. In potentiodynamic conditions, the change in the over-
 2.3. Mass activity and turn over frequency potential at defined current densities is a measure of the
 The activities of electrocatalysts certainly depend on the robustness of the catalyst. In general, stability in acidic con-
 loading of a catalyst; hence, it is essential to relate the ditions for OER is the bottleneck as both the corrosive nature
 observed current densities with it for calculating the mass of the acid and anodic overpotentials together aﬀect the elec-
 activity. The normalized loading of a catalyst is 0.205 mg cm−2 trode surface strongly. When the materials are grown in Ni
 and when the materials are grown at 3D conducting substrates foam and Cu foam-like electrodeposition and hydrothermal

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 237
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 approaches, they show great stability. This is because of the surface during OER.76 The exploration of the CuO catalyst at
 strong sticking of the electrode material to the pores of the diﬀerent pH conditions was carried out by Liu et al., where
 conducting substrates. Recent findings have shown the stable they have electrodeposited CuO over the FTO plate with the
 nature of 3d-transition metals based catalysts in alkaline OER area of 1 cm2 by varying the copper(II) precursor and have
 and HER.72 Still, the development of bi-functional catalysts is finally formulated CuO-1, CuO-2, and CuO-3 for OER.77 Here,
 still underway for replacing scarce metals in both the activity CuO-1 had shown irregular arrangement of the nanoparticles
 and stability aspects. These parameters such as the overpoten- (NPs) with the size of 200 nm to 1 μm, CuO-2 showed uniform
 tial, Tafel slope, mass activity, TOF, and stability have to be microspheres and the diameter was about 1 μm, and CuO-3
 evaluated and considered critically for deriving better catalysts exhibited flaky slices that showed a thickness of about
 for electrocatalytic water splitting in multiple pH conditions. 1.482 μm, which was confirmed via electrodeposition, and by
 changing the precursor of copper(II), the resulting morphology
 can be fine-tuned. After this, their OER activities were studied
 3. Importance of Cu in in diﬀerent electrolytes such as 0.1 M potassium phosphate
 ( pH 7), 0.1 M potassium borate ( pH 9.2), 0.1 M KOH ( pH 13),
 electrocatalytic water splitting
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 and 1 M KOH ( pH 13.6). In the observed OER studies, CuO-3,
 Cu with the electronic configuration of 3d10 4s1 is a 3d-tran- which is annealed at 500 °C with flaky slices, showed high
 sition element and is highly earth-abundant in nature. Cu roughness factor and activity in OER. From the described
 shows high electrical and thermal conductivity and shows polarization study of CuO-3, it can be seen that there is
 strong reluctance to arc erosion when compared with iron gradual increase in the current density when the pH is
 group metals such as Ni, Fe, and Co. With promising activities increased (Fig. 1). This is in accordance with the thermo-
 in OER with the ease of hydroxyl intercalation and oxygen clea- dynamic constraints of the ionic conductivities of the electro-
 vage, it can oﬀer impressive activity and stability. Cu has been lytes used. Moreover, the onset potential is reduced when the
 extensively studied for water splitting because of its favorable pH is raised and becomes the highest for 1 M KOH, showing
 electronic properties and ensures comparable OER and HER the highly active nature of CuO-3 for OER in alkaline electrolyte.
 activity. Cu with oxidation states of 0, +1, and +2 were studied Still, the neutral OER activity is also appealing with this catalyst.
 and analyzed with remarkable activities in OER and HER in The stability of CuO-3 was further assessed via the chronopoten-
 diﬀerent pH conditions. Moreover, Cu is studied in the form tiometry study. At the current densities of 1 and 3 mA cm−2, the
 of oxides, hydroxides, layered double hydroxides, sulfides, sele- observed overpotential was not deviated much even for 24 h of
 nides, phosphides, and tellurides as only Cu and with other reaction time and an assured stable nature; however, at 5 and
 transition metal-based catalysts for OER and HER appli- 10 mA cm−2, the potential deviation is more after 12 and 8 h of
 cations. This review focuses on the sequential investigations of continuous electrolysis, respectively. Extended X-ray absorption
 Cu-based catalysts for both OER and HER as follows: fine structure (EXAFS) was analyzed for CuO-3 with the standard
 • Cu-Based oxides and hydroxides for OER for k space and R space is given in Fig. 2. The peaks observed
 • Cu-Based oxides for HER between 1 and 2 Å were for Cu and the first co-ordinate shell O,
 • Cu-Based layered double hydroxides for OER and HER while 2–4 Å denoted the distance between the nearest Cu
 • Cu-Based sulfides for OER and HER
 • Cu-Based selenides for OER and HER
 • Cu-Based tellurides for HER
 • Cu-Based phosphides for OER and HER
 The possibilities of Cu-based catalysts replacing noble
 metals will be discussed further and the relative advantages of
 Cu-based catalysts in electrocatalytic water splitting will be
 summarized at the end of this review.

 4. Cu oxides and hydroxides for OER
 Cu oxides with stoichiometries of CuO and Cu2O, even though
 with the less active nature for OER in terms of the onset over-
 potential and overpotentials at certain current densities com-
 pared to iron group metals such as Fe, Co, and Ni, can still
 further be extended for OER via surface modifications,
 growing them in conductive supports, and with porous struc-
 tures. Moreover, the nature of the active species during OER Fig. 1 LSV curves of CuO-3 at diﬀerent pH conditions for OER showing
 that act as a real catalyst also matters and recent finding have the variance in activity. Reprinted with permission from ref. 77.
 enabled the identification of metastable CuIII–O as the catalyst Copyright (2016) American Chemical Society.

 238 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 2 (a) EXAFS for CuO-3 and the standard in k space, (b) R space, and (c) structure of CuO-3. Reprinted with permission from ref. 77. Copyright
 (2016) American Chemical Society.

 co-ordinate shells for k space and fitted in the R space. From 1 mA cm−2 in borate electrolyte. This shows the advantageous
 these observations and from the structure observed from XAS, nature of conducting stainless steel as a valid support for
 the quadrangular structure showed CuOOCu, which could act copper-based oxides for assuring extended OER activity.
 as an active center for electrocatalytic OER. As only Cu is unstable under the prolonged conditions of
 Other cost-eﬀective conducting substrates can be utilized as electrolysis, passivation as oxides by high temperature anneal-
 supports such as graphene, carbon, 3D-foams, foils, and stain- ing gives stability. Recently, Huan et al. developed Cu/CuO/
 less steels for having superior activity in Cu-based oxides. In Cu2O on Cu foil by electrodeposition, followed by annealing to
 one of the interesting works, Pawar et al. developed 2D CuO have a dendritic growth of Cu for the ease of OER.79 This den-
 over a stainless steel substrate via chemical bath deposition.78 dritic growth and porous nature of the copper oxide formed is
 As the stainless steel promises a cost-eﬀective and conducting attributed to the use of electrodeposition at high current den-
 nature, developing these as strong supports for catalysts such sities, where hydrogen bubbles formed intensively and
 as CuO will be rather advantageous to meet the viable needs of ensured the macropores of Cu/CuO/Cu2O, which is otherwise
 hydrogen production. In this work, nanobundles of CuO were important for the diﬀusion of the active species without any
 grown over stainless steel and acted as a good catalytic mass transport limitations. Fig. 3a shows the micropores of
 material for OER (CuO was deposited and annealed at 200 °C) Cu/CuO/Cu2O after electrodeposition, revealing the optimized
 in alkali and 0.2 M borate buﬀer electrolytes. In 1 M KOH, the structure for OER (1) and dendritic growth can be seen in
 onset potential varied from 250 to 270 mV, which is superior; Fig. 3b. The cross-sectional area with the presence of Cu, CuO,
 at 10 mA cm−2, the overpotentials observed were nearly and Cu2O confirmed its rationality in delivering superior OER
 380 mV for the as-deposited CuO and 350 mV for annealed (Fig. 3c). To further enhance the activity, high temperature
 CuO. Further, the required overpotential is nearly 540 mV at annealing (2) and also the further electrodeposition of

 Fig. 3 (a) Macropores of Cu, (b) dendritic growth, and (c) sectional view. Reprinted with permission from ref. 79. Copyright (2017) Wiley-VCH.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 239
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 4 (a) HAADF area and blue circles indicate the area chosen for SAED, (b) and (c) STEM mapping showing Cu-orange and O-green, (d–f ) SAED
 patterns, and (g and h) intensity proﬁle analysis of the SAED observed. Reprinted with the permission from ref. 79. Copyright (2017) Wiley-VCH.

 N-containing imidazole was added to the surface (3). These subjected for OER in 1 M KOH. From the observed polarization
 three catalysts were evaluated for polarization studies in 1 M studies, the activity trend was in the order CuO NFs > CuO NLs
 NaOH. The mictrostructural investigations revealed the nature > CuO NSs > CuO NCs. The onset potential was found to be
 of Cu present in the foil and from Fig. 4a–f, the observed the lowest in the case of CuO NFs with 1.48 V vs. RHE. The
 HAADF mapping and SAED pattern from the area chosen in onset potentials for others were between 1.49 and 1.53 V. The
 Fig. 4a showed the clear-cut presence of Cu, CuO, and Cu2O in overpotential at 10 mA cm−2 was the lowest for the NFs of CuO
 the region chosen in the HAADF image. When catalyst (3) is with just 270 mV as the overpotential (Fig. 6a). The diﬀerence
 subjected to OER, it shows tremendous activity by requiring in the overpotentials was considerable for all four types of CuO
 just 290 mV as the overpotential at 10 mA cm−2 with a Tafel nanostructures, as can be seen from Fig. 6b. Electron transfer
 slope of 64 mV dec−1 in 1 M NaOH. Also, the stability study at kinetics, as observed from the Tafel slope curves, indicated
 1 mA cm−2 showed negligible deviation in the activity even for that CuO NFs showed lesser Tafel slope value of just 84 mV
 100 h of reaction. However, at high current densities of 10 mA dec−1 (Fig. 6c). Further, the charge transfer resistance, as ana-
 cm−2, the deviation is considerable.79 These possible results lyzed from the EIS spectra, showed that with very less Rct, CuO
 are attributed to the method adapted in directing the sequen- NFs showed improved kinetics of charge transfer at the elec-
 tial growth of copper oxides. This one could be further vali- trode/electrolyte interface (Fig. 6d). Also, the electrochemically
 dated with other porous 3D foams to have highly active Cu- active surface area was found to be higher in the NFs. Here,
 based nanostructures. Following this, in another work by the activity of CuO NFs is attributed to the highly dense
 Arshad et al., the electrodeposition of CuO was undertaken growth of the nanosheets in the flower-like structures.
 with diﬀerent nanostructures such as nanosheets, nanocubes, Considering the stability aspect, during controlled potential
 nanoflowers, and nanoleaves.67 This has been done with the electrolysis, CuO NFs exhibited higher stability at 20 mA cm−2,
 solution-phase approach, wherein varying the used concen- which could remain stable for 15 h. This comparative study
 tration of NaOH and precursors resulted in the formation of enabled the further investigation of CuO-based nanostructures
 diﬀerent nanostructures (Fig. 5). These catalysts have been by the simple method of synthetic approach for OER studies.

 240 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 5 Schematization for the formulation of diﬀerent nanostructures of CuO thin ﬁlms. Reprinted with permission from ref. 67. Copyright (2020)
 Elsevier.

 Fig. 6 (a) LSV curves, (b) overpotential at diﬀerent current densities, (c) Tafel slope, and (d) EIS spectra. Reprinted with permission from ref. 67.
 Copyright (2020) Elsevier.

 In another interesting work by Zhang et al., the inferior activity network is converted into hollow porous CuO and C over the
 with bare metal oxides were nullified by choosing MOF frame- nanodendrites of the Cu/Cu2O@Cu foam without disturbing
 works that formed over the CuO dendrites in the 3D-Cu foam, its structure. This is highly required in order to have fast
 which established outstanding OER activity in 1 M KOH diﬀusion of the electroactive species in directing the OER with
 (Fig. 7).80 This study showed the strategic output in engineer- higher activity and stability. Moreover, the presence of excess
 ing the surface of the Cu foam by deploying the intentional CuO NPs with the annealing of MOF can further provide
 incorporation of MOF networks, which served in providing material stability. For OER in 1 M KOH, the electrocatalyst Cu/
 excess copper oxide NPs over the nanodendrites in the Cu/ Cu2O@Cu foam required a huge overpotential of 400 mV in
 Cu2O@Cu foam. After the annealing process, the MOF achieving 10 mA cm−2 current density (Fig. 8a). Here, the low

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 241
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 7 Schematization showing the hollow shell-coated copper oxide nanodendrites. Reprinted with permission from ref. 80. Copyright (2018)
 American Chemical Society.

 Fig. 8 (a) LSV curves, (b) overpotential at diﬀerent current densities, (c) Tafel slope, and (d) EIS spectra. Reprinted with permission from ref. 80.
 Copyright (2018) American Chemical Society.

 242 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 activity might be due to the nanoneedle structure of Cu2O, mation of metastable CuIII ions during OER. This intermediate
 which is poor for catalyzing water oxidation. When the same is observed only in the case of Cu(OH)2 and CuO but not in
 was added with hollow porous CuO by means of MOF and after the case of Cu and Cu2O. Also, they observed that Cu(OH)2 and
 its subsequent annealing, the activity becomes huge and CuO showed 10 times better OER activity compared to Cu and
 requires an overpotential of 286 mV at 10 mA cm−2 and 482 mV Cu2O. This could be due to the ease of conversion of Cu2+ to
 to attain 100 mA cm−2 (Fig. 8b). This is mainly attributed to the Cu3+ compared to Cu+ to Cu3+ oxidative conversion. This is
 incorporation of conducting carbon, which ensured the fast and indeed really an important finding as based on this, other
 facile transport of the electroactive species for OER. The Tafel earth-abundant materials can be added to Cu(OH)2 and CuO
 slope decreased from 212 mV dec−1 to nearly 66 mV dec−1 with for the viable production of hydrogen with ease. To evaluate
 the hollow porous CuO/C network (Fig. 8c). Further, the charge the nature of the activity with Cu, Cu2O, Cu(OH)2, and CuO,
 transfer resistance was in accordance with the earlier results. in situ Raman spectroscopy was carried out during the chron-
 Also, the stability was monitored with chronopotentiometry oamperometry study. The potential taken is 1.7 V for chron-
 study and the hollow porous CuO/Cu nanodendrites ensured no oamperometry; CuO and Cu(OH)2 showed high current density
 degradation in the activity even up to 50 h (Fig. 8d).80 of 1.7 and 0.8 mA cm−2, respectively. In the case of Cu2O and
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 The nature of active species in copper and copper oxides Cu catalysts, the current densities observed were in the range
 was evaluated further with Deng et al. by in situ Raman spec- of 0.1–0.2 mA cm−2 only (Fig. 9a). This shows the poor activity
 troscopy and X-ray absorption near-edge structure spectroscopy of Cu+ catalysts. Further, the chosen potential of 1.7 V is a
 (XANES) for Cu, Cu2O, Cu(OH)2, and CuO in electrocatalytic transpassive region, where these Cu2O and Cu will not get con-
 OER.76 In general, previously reported Cu-based oxides with verted into the oxides or hydroxides during the chronoampero-
 high activities have been postulated to be have highly accessi- metry study. The Raman spectra before, during, and after
 ble electrochemically active surface area, conducting supports chronoamperometry were analyzed for all the four catalysts
 such as C and highly porous structures. In this particular (Fig. 9b). The observed peak at 603 cm−1 corresponds to CuIII–
 work, the study of Cu as its oxides and hydroxides by in situ O, which is observed only in the case of CuO and Cu(OH)2. In
 Raman spectroscopy gave information that there is the for- case of Cu2O and Cu, no such peak was observed during OER,

 Fig. 9 (a) Chronoamperometry, (b) Raman spectra before, during, and after OER, (c) SEM images after chronoamperometry. Reprinted with per-
 mission from ref. 76. Copyright (2018) American Chemical Society.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 243
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 suggesting that there is no formation of CuIII–O. Also, from esis showed higher activity. The CuO-FTO electrode showed
 this one, it was concluded that the poor activity in these cata- lesser onset potential of 370 mV and to reach 1 mA cm−2,
 lysts is corresponding to the unsuccessful conversion of CuIII– required 500 mV as the overpotential with a Tafel slope value
 O. Also, the their morphological features were further assessed of 57 mV dec−1. From these observations, it is clear that by
 by post-OER SEM images and all of them showed retention of fine-tuning the nanostructural aspects, conducting support,
 their morphological structures, which suggested the robust- enhancement in the active metal center, porosity, accessible
 ness of Cu-based oxides and hydroxides in OER (Fig. 9c). surface area, and 3D structure, it becomes easy to engineer the
 Hence, the development of optimized copper-based oxides activities with Cu-based oxides and hydroxides for OER. The
 is highly demanded as of now. In a work by Wang et al., the method of synthesis, which is very simple with extended
 electrophoresis method is adapted to synthesize Cu(OH)2 and activity and stability, is always encouraged when we focus on
 CuO electrocatalysts in FTO substrate and applied for OER in earth-abundant materials such as Cu.
 0.2 M phosphate buﬀer ( pH = 12).81 Prior to the electrophor- As observed earlier, CuO is found to be highly active and in
 esis method, the colloid was prepared by combining both addition to surface engineering and variation in the method of
 CuCl2 and NaOH solution. After this, electrophoresis was con- formulation, the co-doping of other metals to the CuO surface
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 ducted by keeping the FTO plate as the working electrode with can result in unprecedented increment in OER activities.
 electrolytes such as Cu(OH)2, iodine, and acetone. The thick- Recently, Xiong et al., showed the increment in OER activity
 ness of the film is crucial for determining the resulting electro- with CuO by means of Co doping for the alkaline OER.71 By
 catalytic activity. Hence, in this work, with varying deposition the cation exchange method, some of the Cu in CuO was
 times, Cu(OH)2-FTO was prepared, as depicted in Fig. 10. This replaced with Co and the activity is enhanced with the obser-
 showed blue color and the same is annealed to prepare vance of high current densities (Fig. 11). Here, only CuO/CF
 CuO-FTO and after annealing, it exhibited a dark orange color. showed inferior activity and in Co-CuO/CF, the overpotential
 From microstructural studies, Cu(OH)2-FTO showed a nano- required at 50 and 10 mA cm−2 was nearly 299 and 330 mV,
 belt-like structure and after annealing, CuO-FTO showed a respectively, thus only empowering the eﬀect of doping in
 fluﬀy nanowire structure. After this, electrochemical OER copper oxides for high rate OER. The Tafel slope value was
 studies were carried out in phosphate buﬀer. Among diﬀerent lesser and observed to be about 134 mV dec−1 closer to that of
 time optimized conditions, the one with 10 s of electrophor- the commercial catalyst RuO2/CF. Moreover, the cycling study

 Fig. 10 (a) Snapshots of Cu(OH)2 formed by the electrophoresis method at diﬀerent time intervals and (b) the same samples annealed at 300 °C for
 CuO-FTO. Reprinted with permission from ref. 81. Copyright (2017) Materials Research Society.

 244 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 activity in 0.1 M KOH. A further increase in Ce concentration
 caused a reduction in the activity, which could be ascribed to
 the formation of the segregated phase of CeO2. Also, the pres-
 ence of Ce4+ ions contributed to an increase in the OER
 activity. Up to a certain concentration of Ce, the activity was
 increased because of tetravalent Ce ions and as a further
 increase resulted in CeO2 phase segregation, the activity was
 reduced. For OER in 0.1 M KOH, the Ce-modified CuOx surface
 with 6.9% increased activity showed a current density of
 2.4 mA cm−2 at an overpotential of 400 mV, which was 3.3
 times higher than that of CuOx (Fig. 13). At concentrations
 more than 6.9%, the formation of the CeO2 phase was con-
 firmed by Raman analysis, where a new peak corresponding to
 CeO2 was observed at 452 cm−1. Moreover, the presence of
 Ce4+ ions ensured more stability compared to only CuOx, as
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 witnessed from stability study. From the observed results on
 oxides, the hydroxide catalysts of Cu for OER gave information
 that Cu can be a promising candidate in delivering high rate
 OER. Moreover, CuO and Cu(OH)2 catalysts could bring lesser
 overpotentials compared to the Cu and Cu2O catalysts with
 Fig. 11 Schematic representation showing the cation exchange for the
 doping of Co over CuO/CF. Reprinted with permission from ref. 71.
 metastable Cu3+ ions for OER. Also, conducting supports such
 Copyright (2018) American Chemical Society. as carbon and the MOF framework that increase the surface
 active sites, 3D foam, and method of syntheses such as electro-
 phoresis method, electrodeposition, cation exchange method,
 solvothermal approach, and high temperature annealing can
 and chronopotentiometry study revealed that the doping of Co result in impressive OER activities and stabilities. Also, the
 ensured high robustness of the CuO/CF catalyst for OER. In addition of other transition metals such as Ni, Co, and Ce to
 addition, the electrochemically active surface area and BET the CuO material could facilitate facile charge transport and
 area was found to be huge in Co-doped CuO/CF. assure high stability under prolonged OER studies.
 These findings enabled the utilization of Co-doping over
 CuO for the enhancement in OER application in alkaline 4.1 Cu-Based oxides for HER
 environment. Similarly, the electrodeposition of CuO with Compared to the OER application of copper-based oxides and
 highly active Ni is done to prepare NiCuOx for extended OER hydroxides, the HER studies are actually lesser, which is
 activity in 1 M Na2CO3.82 In this work, Wang et al. had chosen because of the poor ionic conductivity of the Cu surface in
 ITO plate as a conducting support to grow materials such as defining the HER kinetics and the subsequent energy descrip-
 NiOx, CuOx, and NiCuOx through electrodeposition method. tor in anchoring the electroactive species. Therefore, HER
 In case of NiOx, surface coverage over ITO is more compared to studies on Cu-based oxides have been carried out with con-
 NiCuOx, which could be due to the low electrodeposition rate ducting supports such as graphene, modifying methods of syn-
 here with the addition of Ni. The OER activity of only CuOx is thesis, and by adding other transition metal-based oxides so
 very poor and required an onset overpotential of 420 mV as to counteract the reluctance in achieving lower overpoten-
 (Fig. 12a). Similarly, NiOx required an onset overpotential of tials for HER. In a notable work by Farinazzo et al., the surface
 470 mV and in case of NiCuOx, the onset overpotential of polycrystalline Cu towards HER in alkaline media was
 required is lower with the value of 320 mV. The observed Tafel studied by carrying out modifications such as electropolishing
 slope values were 190, 280, and 120 mV dec−1 for CuOx, NiOx, (E-Cu ( poly)), annealing (A-Cu ( poly)), and polishing with
 and NiCuOx, respectively, showing relatively high charge trans- alumina (P-Cu ( poly)).83 The electrocatalytic HER activity in
 fer kinetics in the presence of Ni with CuOx (Fig. 12b). The alkaline media was observed and the activity trend was in the
 concentration variation of Ni percent with electrodeposition, following order: E-Cu ( poly) < A-Cu ( poly) < P-Cu ( poly). This
 which has been shown in Fig. 12c, gives evidence that 20% of was studied by the XPS analysis and the Auger Cu LMM peak
 Ni along with CuOx ensured low onset overpotential (Cu/Ni at 917 eV along with the peak at 919 eV suggest the Cu(I) and
 ratio, 4 : 1). Here also, with the addition of Ni to CuOx, the Cu0 oxidation states, respectively. From the observed relative
 stability was assured from the chronopotentiometry study, intensities, the surface chemistry of these electrodes was deter-
 where we can see that the potential deviation was lesser with mined for HER studies. The observed intensities are Cu(0) >
 the presence of Ni compared to only the CuOx catalyst Cu(I), Cu(0) ∼ Cu(I), and Cu(0) < Cu(I) for E-Cu ( poly), A-Cu
 (Fig. 12d). In another work, Chen et al., Ce-modified CuOx ( poly), and P-Cu ( poly) catalysts, respectively. From this, it is
 catalyst was prepared via the electrodeposition method.66 The understood that the presence of excess Cu(I) in P-Cu ( poly)
 addition of Ce to the CuOx surface led to 6.9% improved OER ensured the higher HER activity and the overpotential required

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 245
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 12 (a) LSV study, (b) Tafel slope, (c) concentration variation of Ni in % with CuOx, and (d) chronopotentiometry study. Reprinted with permission
 from ref. 82. Copyright (2017) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 at 5 mA cm−2 is nearly 320 mV, whereas for A-Cu ( poly) and
 E-Cu ( poly), the observed overpotentials were 500 and 740 mV,
 respectively, at the same current density. To further validate
 the activity trends, the hydrophilic nature was studied with O
 1s XPS high resolution spectra, where the H2O peak is major
 for P-Cu ( poly) and the poorly active E-Cu ( poly) does not show
 such a peak, thus confirming the increase in the hydrophilic
 nature of the surface when polishing with P-Cu ( poly). From
 this study, it was suggested to increase the hydrophilic nature
 with Cu-based catalysts with a rough surface for the strong
 adsorption of electroactive species for HER (Fig. 14a–d).
 To enhance the HER activities of copper oxides, reduced
 graphene oxide, MOF porous network, and 3D Cu foam were
 utilized in an interesting work carried out by Ye et al.84
 Initially, MOF networks were grown over Cu foam, which then
 Fig. 13 Polarization study of Ce with CuOx at diﬀerent concentrations
 formed Cu/Cu-MOF/GO with the subsequent addition of GO
 of electrodeposition. Reprinted with permission from ref. 66. Copyright (Fig. 15). This was further annealed to provide Cu/Cu2O–CuO/
 (2017) Royal Society of Chemistry. rGO, which acted as a magnificent HER catalyst in alkaline

 246 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 14 (a) LSV, (b) overpotential at the deﬁned current density, (c) Cu LMM XPS, and (d) O 1s high resolution spectra. Reprinted with permission
 from ref. 83. Copyright (2019) Elsevier.

 conditions. The electrodes were studied for HER and as activity and stability. This work has paved a way for developing
 expected with highly conducting supports and a 3D porous Cu-based oxides with MOFs and other conductive supports for
 structure, Cu/Cu2O–CuO/rGO could give astonishing HER enriching the HER activity and stability in an alkaline
 activity by acquiring a very less onset overpotential of just environment.
 84 mV and an overpotential of 105 mV at a current density of Nano-composites can be used to increase the activities in
 10 mA cm−2. From Fig. 16a, it is clear that compared to Cu HER in alkaline media. Following such a strategy, Tahira et al.,
 foam, Cu/MOF/GO, and Cu/Cu2O–CuO catalysts, the Cu/Cu2O– formulated Co3O4–CuO nano-composites by the dip-coating
 CuO/rGO catalyst delivered superior HER activity by requiring method, which showed promising activities in HER.85 To reach
 lower overpotentials and by acquiring high current densities. 10 mA cm−2, Co3O4–CuO nano-composites required just
 The histogram in Fig. 16b infers the same and shows the 288 mV, whereas Co3O4 and CuO showed poor HER activity
 potential with conducting supports such as rGO in the enhan- (Fig. 17a). This was attributed to the synergistic enhancement
 cing HER kinetics. The relatively less Rct compared to all other with Co and Cu, which ensured high activity. The charge trans-
 catalysts further guarantees the superiority of the Cu/Cu2O– fer kinetics, as extracted from the Tafel slope values, showed a
 CuO/rGO catalyst in HER (Fig. 16c). The chronoamperometry similar trend and the Co3O4–CuO nano-composites showed
 study for 14 h showed high stability ensuring the robustness of 65 mV dec−1 compared to that of Co3O4 and CuO, which
 the catalyst (Fig. 16d). This was mainly attributed to the con- needed 94 and 243 mV dec−1, respectively (Fig. 17b). Also, the
 ducting 3D support, rGO network, and along with a high elec- stability was enhanced with the composites and in both the
 trical conductivity ensured high rate charge transfer with high potentiodynamic and galvanostatic analyses, negligible devi-

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 247
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 ation was achieved. These studies on Cu oxides for HER
 showed the possibilities for developing catalysts with distinct
 modifications to provide high HER activity in future. From
 these discussions, it is clear that the eﬀect of Cu-based oxides
 can be made superior with the addition of conducting sup-
 ports, anchoring in 3D foam, using nano-composites, etc., in
 HER.

 5. Cu-Based layered double
 hydroxides for OER and HER
 Layered double hydroxide catalysts are well known for their
 sequential layered arrangements of metal sharing octahedron
 (MII/MIII-(OH)6) that are stacked and present in between the
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 anions and water molecules arranged via both hydrogen
 bonding and weak van der Waals force to make a suﬃcient
 path and space for the electrolyte ions to come and intercalate
 for OER and HER. This gives suﬃcient interlayer spacing and
 Fig. 15 Schematization of the formation of Cu/Cu2O–CuO/rGO elec- depending upon the anions, the spacing can be varied and the
 trodes for HER. Reprinted with permission from ref. 84. Copyright hydrophilic nature is enhanced with excess water molecules.
 (2018) Royal Society of Chemistry.
 The role of Cu in LDH systems has recently got attention with

 Fig. 16 (a) LSV, (b) overpotential at the deﬁned current density, (c) EIS, and (d) chronoamperometry for 14 h. Reprinted with permission from ref.
 84. Copyright (2018) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 248 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 17 (a) LSV and (b) Tafel slopes for the Co3O4, CuO, and Co3O4–CuO nano-composites. Reprinted with permission from ref. 85. Copyright
 (2019) Elsevier.

 substantial activity and stability, considering both OER and tion and electrodeposition approaches (Fig. 18).86 Initially, Cu
 HER and total water splitting (TWS). Yu et al. reported the easy foam was taken and to this, Cu(OH)2 was grown, which on
 formation of Cu@CoFe LDH for TWS with both electroreduc- further annealing gave the CuO@Cu foam. The subsequent

 Fig. 18 Schematization of the formation of core–shell Cu@CoFeLDH in Cu foam by the electrodeposition method. Reprinted with permission from
 ref. 86. Copyright (2017) Elsevier.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 249
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 electroreduction provided Cu Nanowires@Cu foam. This was which is only 60 mV higher than that of the IrO2 anode and Pt
 again treated with Co and Fe metal precursors for undergoing cathode electrolyzer (Fig. 19a). Finding robustness with Cu-
 electrodeposition again, which finally ended up in forming based catalysts for the two-electrode set-up is highly demand-
 core–shell nanoarchitectures. These catalysts have been ing and here, the chronopotentiometric study was carried out
 studied for OER, HER, and TWS in aqueous 1 M KOH. From at 10 mA cm−2 for both the systems. The IrO2/Pt system after
 the OER polarization studies, compared to the Cu foam, Cu 12 h showed a gradual increase in the overpotential, whereas
 NWs@Cu foam, and CoFe LDH@Cu foam, Cu@CoFe LDH Cu@CoFe LDH-60 as anode and cathode delivered higher
 showed greater activity. Cu@CoFe LDH electrodeposited at stability even up to 48 h and degradation was negligible. Here,
 diﬀerent times and among which Cu@CoFe LDH-60 s deli- the calculated faradaic eﬃciency was nearly 100%, confirming
 vered better activity, required just 240 mV of overpotential to Cu-based LDHs as promising alternatives. Further, the calcu-
 meet 10 mA cm−2 current density. The Tafel slope value is very lated Cdl was found to be higher and with lesser Rct in EIS,
 lesser with just 44.4 mV dec−1, compared to all other catalysts, showed admirable properties to be used as alternatives in the
 thus showing the high rate charge transfer kinetics of the cata- future (Fig. 19b–f ). This study ensured the role of Cu-eﬃcient
 lyst. Moreover, the stability was further proved by the chrono- TWS application in an alkaline environment. Similarly, in
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 potentiometric study for 24 h, where not much potential devi- another interesting work, the same group highlighted the for-
 ation was observed. Similarly, in HER, to attain the current mation of Cu@NiFe LDH for TWS in 1 M KOH.87 Here, highly
 density of 10 mA cm−2, the requirement of overpotential was active NiFe as the metal precursor was taken for the LDH struc-
 nearly 171 mV with a lower Tafel slope value of 36.4 mV dec−1. ture over Cu foam. Similar to the above discussions, electro-
 The chronoamperometry study carried out for 30 h showed reduction followed by electrodeposition resulted in the for-
 almost no degradation in activity, thus empowering the HER mation of the Cu@NiFeLDH/Cu foam (Fig. 20). For OER at
 activity and stability for making it as a two-electrode system in 10 mA cm−2, it required an overpotential of 199 mV with a
 a strong alkaline environment. When this Cu@CoFe LDH-60 Tafel slope value of just 27 mV dec−1, suggesting nearly four-
 was used as both the anode and cathode for a two-electrode electron transfer for OER. In the same way, for HER at 10 mA
 set-up, the voltage required at 10 mA cm−2 was just 1.681 V, cm−2, the overpotential required was just 116 mV with a Tafel

 Fig. 19 (a) LSV, (b) GSTAT analysis, (c) faradaic eﬃciency, (d) ECSA, (e) Nyquist plot, and (f ) the structure of Cu@CoFeLDH over Cu foam. Reprinted
 with permission from ref. 86. Copyright (2017) Elsevier.

 250 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 20 Schematization of the formation of core–shell Cu@NiFeLDH in Cu foam by the electrodeposition method. Reprinted with permission from
 ref. 87. Copyright (2017) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 slope of 58.9 mV dec−1. For both OER and HER, it showed similar way, with diﬀerent methods adapted for deposition,
 high stability. After this, TWS was carried out and to attain such as UPED, CV, PM, and PPM, only the UPED method was
 10 mA cm−2 current density with Cu@NiFe LDH as the anode found to be commendable compared to other methods for the
 and the cathode, just 1.54 V was required compared to IrO2/Pt, deposition of Cu(OH)2@NiFe LDH. By the comparative studies
 which required 1.63 V, which is actually 90 mV higher than carried out, in the UPED method, the Ni/Fe ratio of 6 : 4 was
 that of the Cu-based NiFe LDH system. Post-structural studies the best; the observed overpotential at a current density of
 such as HRTEM, mapping, and XPS have confirmed the stable 10 mA cm−2 was nearly 283 mV and the observed Tafel slope
 nature of Cu@NiFe LDH electrodes (Fig. 21a–e). The mapping value was 88 mV dec−1, which is lesser than that of only
 study confirmed the presence of all the expected elements Cu(OH)2 and NiFe LDH. The stability test carried out by con-
 such as Cu, Ni, and Cu. The activity for OER and HER from tinuous electrolysis for 10 h has summarized the advantageous
 the polarization curves was observed again after the stability incorporation of Cu(OH)2 with NiFe LDH. Here, only Cu(OH)2
 studies. From the observed LSV curves of OER and HER, it was degraded during the activity after continuous electrolysis,
 could be observed that the changes were still negligible whereas in Cu(OH)2@NiFe LDH, NiFe LDH protected Cu(OH)2
 (Fig. 21f ). These reports of Cu-based LDH structures with from leaching. These kinds of addition of Cu-based super-
 other transition metals are promising for directing other structures along with transition metal-based Ni, Fe, and Co-
 simple ways to commercialize them in the future. based LDHs is a strategy to improve the OER and HER activi-
 Cu as Cu(OH)2 with NiFe LDH has also been found to have ties. Cu itself has been added with highly active Ni as CuNi
 superior OER activity in KOH. In a work by Ma et al., unipolar LDH and studied for OER application in detail. In a work by
 pulse electrodeposition (UPED) was adapted to grow Cu Xie et al., NiCu LDH was prepared first, and after this, selective
 (OH)2@NiFe LDH over carbon paper (Fig. 22).88 The feeding vacancies in the brucite layer were made by the removal of
 ratios of Ni/Fe were varied and the electricity used during the Cu(II) with a simple ion-reductive complexation extraction (IRCE)
 deposition process was also varied. Moreover, diﬀerent method (Fig. 23).89 This vacancy created NiCux LDH, which
 methods for the deposition of Cu(OH)2 over NiFe LDH/CF for was used as a catalyst for OER and delivered tremendous OER
 OER activities have been studied here (Fig. 22). Diﬀerent activity. The active nature of NiCu LDH for OER is poor, which
 methods such as UPED, cyclic voltammetry (CV), potentiostatic is similar to that of Ni(OH)2. Less active LDHs such as NiCu
 method (PM), and pulse potentiostatic method (PPM) were LDH can be improved via the exfoliation process to introduce
 carried out for the deposition of Cu(OH)2@NiFe LDH over defects; however, the problem with this process is the loss of
 carbon paper. All these catalysts, prepared by the change in the mechanical stability of LDH structures, which deteriorates
 the stoichiometry and by the change in the applied quantity in their activity for OER. Here, without aﬀecting the actual struc-
 electricity, have been subjected to OER activity. During depo- ture, vacancies were created exclusively by complexation of an
 sition, among the quantities of electricity used, 2.5 C showed ionic extractant. This is advantageous because there is no dis-
 higher OER activity compared to the other quantities. In a ruption of the transition metal-based LDH structures. In reach-

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 251
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 21 (a and b) HRTEM images (c) mapping results, (d) Ni 2p XPS, (e) Fe 2p XPS, and (f ) the structure of Cu@CoFeLDH over Cu foam. Reprinted
 with permission from ref. 87. Copyright (2017) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 Fig. 22 Schematization of the formation of Cu(OH)2@NiFeLDH in carbon paper by unipolar pulse electrodeposition method. Reprinted with per-
 mission from ref. 88. Copyright (2016) Elsevier.

 ing 10 mA cm−2 for OER, the overpotential required is nearly actually showed 83 mV dec−1. Moreover, in reaching a current
 343 mV for only NiCu LDH. For vacancy created SAV-NiCux density of 100 mA cm−2, the overpotential required for
 LDH, the overpotential was reduced to only 290 mV at 10 mA SAV-NiCux LDH was just 355 mV. Based on this, other LDHs
 cm−2. The observed Tafel slope for SAV-NiCux LDH is very less can be prepared with Cu-based catalysts and through vacancy
 with just 45 mV dec−1 compared to that of NiCu LDH, which engineering without disrupting the LDHs surface, the activities

 252 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 23 Creating Cu(II) vacancies with ionic reductive complexation extraction method in NiCu-LDH structures. Reprinted with permission from ref.
 89. Copyright (2019) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 for OER can be enhanced tremendously. Based on this, there not disrupting the LDHs surface, it was easy to enrich the
 are other ways, for instance, the method of synthesis has been activities of Cu-based LDH catalysts for OER, HER, and TWS
 modified to prepare highly active NiCu LDH nanostructures. applications. Moreover, the stability was more pronounced
 In a work by Zheng et al., the solvothermal approach was fol- with Cu-based LDHs compared to Cu-based oxides and hydrox-
 lowed to directly grow NiCu LDH over carbon cloth.90 This deli- ides. These observations were evidenced clearly from the long-
 vered substantial OER activity and required just 290 mV as term stability studies carried out at high current densities for
 overpotential for achieving 10 mA cm−2 with a Tafel slope of Cu-based LDH structures in OER, HER, and In TWS studies.
 42.5 mV dec−1. The stability study further confirmed the Still, with engineering at the Cu-based LDH surfaces, the
 robustness of the NiCu LDH for OER. Compared to bimetallic activity can be further enhanced.
 LDH, trimetallic LDH has also been found to show higher
 OER activity. In a report from Hu et al., N-doped NiZnCu LDH
 with rGO was prepared over Ni foam and subjected to hybrid 6. Cu-Based sulﬁdes for OER and
 water electrolysis (Fig. 24).91 This work is mainly devoted to HER
 hybrid electrolysis such as ammonia electrolysis, urea electro-
 lysis, and hydrazine electrolysis methods in order to reduce The sulfides of Cu have also been studied extensively for HER
 the energy demand required solely by OER in water electroly- and OER applications at diﬀerent pH conditions. In particular,
 sis. For OER, N-NiZnCu LDH/rGO required an overpotential of the presence of sulfide ions with high electronegativity can
 460 mV at 100 mA cm−2 and for attaining the same current oﬀer higher probability for anchoring protons to its surface for
 density in HER, it actually required 196 mV as the overpoten- eﬀective HER with less applied overpotentials. Moreover, in
 tial. In a comparative study, to reach 100 mA cm−2, N-NiZnCu general, chalcogenide-based Cu catalysts show superionic con-
 LDH/rGO||N-NiZnCu LDH/rGO two-electrode set-up required a ductivity, which is highly demanded for electrocatalytic appli-
 voltage of 1.974 V. These observed activities showed the advan- cations. Based on the diﬀerent stoichiometries, these sulfide-
 tage of trimetallic LDH systems with Cu as one of the tran- based catalysts act as pre-catalysts and during OER, they
 sition metals for enriching OER and HER. From the observed become either oxide or hydroxide phase and are highly active
 Cu-based LDH catalysts for OER and HER, it was found that compared to bare oxide and hydroxide. This has generated
 the modification of the structures, method of synthesis, and interest in studying chalcogenide-based materials in both OER
 direct growth over conducting substrates and by creating cat- and HER. With the highly-conducting nature of Cu, diﬀerent
 ionic vacancies on LDHs surfaces with diﬀerent methods by stoichiometries of sulfur, and the tendency of acting as pre-cat-

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 253
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 24 Schematic representation showing the formation of N-doped NiZnCu LDH-rGO via the hydrothermal process. Reprinted with permission
 from ref. 91. Copyright (2020) Elsevier.

 alysts during OER/HER, working with sulfides of Cu in HER the hydrothermal treatment for the formation of Cu2S nanoar-
 and OER applications is in high demand. In a work by Kale rays. This Cu2S-NA/Cu foam was modified with the thiourea
 et al., the nanorods of Cu2S were formed through the sacrifi- concentration used and three diﬀerent concentrations of
 cial template and applied for OER in 1 M KOH.92 Here, at first, thiourea were used (Fig. 27). Cu2S-NA/Cu foam-50 was found
 the Cu substrates were treated with (NH4)2S2O8 to form Cu to be the one with high OER activity and required an overpo-
 (OH)2, which was grown as nanorods as the (100) direction is tential of 360 mV to deliver 50 mA cm−2 current density. The
 more preferred and the chain is extended with square planar Tafel slope was lower at 75 mV dec−1 compared to that of
 coordination with OH− ions. The sulfurization process was others. After this, He et al. highlighted the fastest way for the
 carried out by keeping this Cu(OH)2-Cu substrate in the Na2S sulfurization of 3D Cu foam to Cu2S nanosheets arrays via
 solution, which successfully formed Cu2S over the Cu sub- plasma treatment and with the extreme anion exchange,
 strate. Initially, Cu2O was formed, which was converted to within 5 min of reaction time, it was grown over the surface of
 Cu2S as the solubility product of the latter is lesser compared Cu foam.94 The OER activity was monitored in 1 M KOH and
 to that of the oxide. The morphological feature, as seen from to reach 20 mA cm−2, Cu2S/CF required just 336 mV as the
 Fig. 25a–e, showed nanorods and the mapping confirmed the overpotential. The activities of CuI/CF and Cu2S/CF were com-
 equal distribution of Cu and S over the surface. When Cu2S/Cu pared with ECSA and the observed values were 25.3 and
 was subjected to OER, it just required 270 mV as overpotential 160.7 mF, respectively, showing a great diﬀerence in the active
 to attain 10 mA cm−2. In the case of Cu(OH)2 and bare Cu, the surface area obtained with the sulfurization process via
 required overpotentials were large, which were 390 mV and plasma treatment. Further, the observed Rct diﬀerence shows
 510 mV, respectively. The charge transfer kinetics was fast in values with a huge margin for CuI/CF compared to Cu2S/CF,
 Cu2S/Cu with just 128 mV dec−1. The stability was further thus empowering the advantage of the sulfurization process
 assured with the chronopotentiometry study and delivered a (Fig. 28a–d). The defined structural modifications of CuS (cov-
 stable current density at 10 mA cm−2 (Fig. 26a–d). Also, the ion ellite) to Cu2S (chalcocite) have been studied for OER in phos-
 exchange method ensured the easy formation of Cu2S/Cu with phate buﬀer solution by An et al. with improved activity.95
 appreciable activity. The less-active CuO-based structures can Here, in this work, for the first time, CuS was converted into
 be finely modified with sulfides over CuO with diﬀerent Cu2S, and by the addition of glycine, the activity was further
 approaches. Wang et al. showed an anodization-cum-hydro- enhanced for OER. Since CuS and Cu2S are semiconducting
 thermal approach for the formation of Cu2S nanorods over Cu with Cu vacancies in the lattice, the reduction process to the
 foam and applied the same for OER in 1 M KOH.93 Here, phase transformation can bring an enhancement in the OER
 initially, the Cu foam was anodized in KOH and annealed performance. The phase transformation was studied and the
 further to form Cu2O nanowires. Thiourea was added under hexagonal phase of CuS was found to consist of layers of

 254 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 25 HRTEM imaging and HAADF mapping of Cu2S over the Cu substrate. Reprinted with permission from ref. 92. Copyright (2020) Royal
 Society of Chemistry.

 S-CuS3-Cu-CuS3 and van der Waals layers along the c-axis use of Cu2S with MoS2 over Cu foam for HER.97 Initially, Cu
 (Fig. 29a). The reduction was favored with the presence of (OH)2 was grown over Cu foam and after this, thiourea and
 OAm and when the S atoms in both CuS and Cu2S were sodium molybdate were added hydrothermally for the for-
 observed in the (001) and (110) planes, they were hexagonally mation of Cu2S/MoS2/Cu foam (Fig. 30). Here, the use of
 close packed (Fig. 29b). The major diﬀerence between them is thiourea ensured N-doping over MoS2. The Cu2S/MoS2/CF elec-
 that more Cu cations were inserted into the interstices of the S trode was assessed for HER in KOH and the observed overpo-
 sites over Cu2S chalcocite structures. These Cu2S NPs were tential at 10 mA cm−2 was 91 mV. Also, a current density of
 studied for OER in 6 mM glycine in 250 mM phosphate buﬀer 100 mA cm−2 was attained with just 129 mV as the overpoten-
 as this particular concentration of glycine ensured a great tial, which is huge. The activity of Cu2S/MoS2/CF is compara-
 increase in the activity compared to other concentrations and tively higher compared with Cu2S/CF and MoS2/CF. Also, the
 additives. The onset potential for OER is about 272 mV and observed Tafel slope was very less at just 41 mV dec−1 and high
 also the overpotential at 10 mA cm−2 is comparatively lesser at durability was achieved with Cu2S/MoS2/CF. Further, the OER
 428 mV compared to CuS, which actually required an overpo- and HER applications with these Cu-based sulfides have been
 tential of 586 mV. Here, the phase transformation and use of observed by combining with other transition metal-based cata-
 glycine to further enhance the OER activity was finely studied lysts. In an interesting work by Zhou et al., CoS-shelled
 to increase the activities of Cu-based sulfides in OER. These Cu2S nanorods were prepared by the room temperature sulfuri-
 sulfide-based Cu catalysts were further studied in HER studies zation technique with Cu(OH)2 NRs/CF and Cu(OH)2
 where they showed remarkable activities and stabilities. For NRs@Co2CO3(OH)2/CF (Fig. 31).98 The prepared catalysts were
 HER at diﬀerent pH conditions ( pH = 0 and pH = 14), Bhat subjected for OER and HER studies in 1 M KOH. The synergis-
 et al. prepared micro-hexagons of Cu2S via a hydrothermal tic eﬀect in the presence of both CoS and Cu2S ensured higher
 approach. The observed overpotentials were 330 mV and OER and HER activity in alkaline media. For OER, Cu2S
 312 mV for reaching a current density of 10 mA cm−2 in alka- NRs@CoS/CF just required an overpotential of 275 mV at
 line and acidic conditions, respectively.96 Moreover, from the 50 mA cm−2. Also, facile charge transfer kinetics is observed
 observed potentiostatic and potentiodynamic stability studies, with a lower Tafel slope value of 54 mV dec−1. Similarly, in
 the micro-hexagons of Cu2S delivered prominent stability, HER, Cu2S NRs@CoS/CF reached a current density of 50 mA
 showing the robustness of Cu2S in extreme pH conditions for cm−2 with a lesser overpotential of 324 mV and the charge
 HER application. Further, the HER kinetics can be made transfer kinetics was facile with the Tafel slope of 121 mV
 superior by the addition of other transition metal-based sul- dec−1. Here also, in alkaline electrolyte for both OER and HER,
 fides along with copper-based sulfides. Wang et al. showed the as a pivotal criterion, robustness was much pronounced with

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 255
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 26 (a) LSV, (b) overpotential at 10 mA cm−2, (c) Tafel slope, and (d) chronopotentiometry. Reprinted with permission from ref. 92. Copyright
 (2020) Royal Society of Chemistry.

 Fig. 27 Schematic representation for the formation of Cu2S nanoarrays over Cu foam. Reprinted with permission from ref. 93. Copyright (2020)
 Elsevier.

 the composites of Cu2S and CoS with the conducting Cu foam tial growth of hydroxides to sulfides via diﬀerent approaches,
 as the 3D support. From the observed copper-based sulfides phase transformation, method of sulfurization, and by compo-
 for OER and HER, the activity was enhanced by means of siting with other transition metal-based sulfides of interest.
 employing conducting 3D networks such as Cu foam, substan- However, the activity and stability of the sulfides of Cu are

 256 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 28 (a–c) ECSA determination with Cdl in the non-faradaic region and (d) the EIS. Reprinted with permission from ref. 94. Copyright (2018)
 American Chemical Society.

 more pronounced when compared to the oxides of the same, with less degradation in activity. ECSA was comparatively
 as observed from the earlier discussions. higher with CuO-A/CF and Rct was too less compared to others
 (Fig. 32a–f ). This study showed the influence of in situ gener-
 ated surface oxide of Cu in enhancing copper-based selenides
 7. Cu-Based selenides for OER and in OER. In another work, Shi et al. showed Cu2Se/CF via the
 HER solution immersion method and applied it for OER in 1 M
 KOH.100 Here, the pretreated Cu foam is taken for selenization
 Selenides of Cu have also been found to show considerable and immersed in a mixture of NaBH4 and Se, and with the
 enhancement in OER and HER with their high electrical con- variation in copper precursors and selenide times, diﬀerent
 ductivity. The study of copper-based selenides has shown catalysts were prepared and analyzed for OER (Fig. 33). In
 impressive HER and OER activities. In a work reported by OER, for reaching 10 mA cm−2, Cu2Se/CF required just 200 mV
 Wang et al., copper selenide-derived copper oxide has been as the overpotential to meet 10 mA cm−2, which is huge com-
 used as a better catalyst for OER in 1 M KOH.99 Here, the pared to other selenide-based catalysts. Also, the observed
 Cu2Se/Cu foam was prepared by reacting Cu(OH)2/CF with Tafel slope value was lesser with just 62.4 mV dec−1. This
 NaBH4 and Se at room temperature. After this, the electro- activity of Cu2Se/CF is higher compared to bare CF and Cu
 chemical oxidation resulted in the formation of oxides of Cu (OH)2/CF, showing the poor activity of metallic and hydroxides
 over Cu2Se/Cu foam. This catalyst delivered tremendous OER compared to the selenized one. Moreover, after subjecting
 activity in 1 M KOH compared to Cu(OH)2 and CuO/CF. The Cu2Se/CF in OER, the electrode turns black, which could be
 CuO-A/CF delivered superior activity with a low overpotential ascribed to the surface oxide formed during the OER study.
 of 297 mV to meet 10 mA cm−2, whereas CuO–C and Cu(OH)2 Hence, these copper-based selenide catalysts thus act as pre-
 required 330 and 379 mV overpotentials at the same current catalysts and during OER, the oxide phase formed acts as a
 density, respectively. The facile charge transfer kinetics was real catalyst. The comparative studies on copper selenides for
 evidenced with Tafel analysis and CuO-A/CF showed a rela- OER were carried out by Masud et al., where chemical vapor
 tively lesser value of 72.8 mV dec−1. The stability was further deposition (CVD), electrodeposition (ED), and hydrothermal
 assured with galvanostatic analysis for 50 h of reaction time techniques were used.101 In all the methods, Cu2Se was suc-

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 257
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 29 (a) Structural models of covellite CuS and chalcocite Cu2S NPs. (b) Side views of CuS (001) and Cu2S (110) planes. Reprinted with permission
 from ref. 95. Copyright (2015) American Chemical Society.

 Fig. 30 Scheme showing the formation of Cu2S/MoS2/CF via the hydrothermal approach. Reprinted with permission from ref. 97. Copyright (2018)
 Wiley-VCH.

 258 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 31 Schematic representation of CoS-shelled Cu2S nanorods over Cu foam. Reprinted with permission from ref. 98. Copyright (2018) Elsevier.

 Fig. 32 (a) LSV, (b) overpotential at 10 mA cm−2, (c) Tafel slope, (d) chronopotentiometry, (e) ECSA, and (f ) EIS results of CuO-A, CuO–C, and Cu
 (OH)2. Reprinted with permission from ref. 99. Copyright (2020) Wiley-VCH.

 cessfully formed and analyzed for OER in 1 M KOH. From the method of synthesis does not influence the activity but the
 observed studies, Cu2Se exhibited superior activity and dura- intrinsic catalytic activity of a material does. Also, the observed
 bility. The observed OER activity was very facile in the electro- charge transfer kinetics is highly facile in the electrodeposited
 deposited one and the required overpotential of 270 mV at a one with a value of 48.1 mV dec−1. Moreover, the durability
 current density of 10 mA cm−2. This study concluded that the was further verified by the chronoamperometry study and the

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 259
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 Fig. 33 Schematic representation for the formation of Cu2Se/CF by the solution immersion method. Reprinted with permission from ref. 100.
 Copyright (2019) Elsevier.

 change in activity, as observed from the polarization study tion over the Cu foam. In a work reported by Zhang et al.,
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 after the stability, was negligible, hence, assuring Cu-based Cu2−xSe/CF was prepared by in situ anion exchange method
 selenides for OER in an alkaline environment (Fig. 34a–d). where NaBH4 and Se tend to give Se ions, which exchanged
 The HER studies of copper selenides were also found to be OH− ions from Cu(OH)2/CF.102 Cu2−xSe/CF was then subjected
 superior and the conducting Cu support with electronegative to acid for HER applications. To reach a current density of
 Se can bring eﬀective H+ ions incorporation to have high rate 100 mA cm−2, it just required 313 mV as the overpotential. The
 HER. Hence, copper-based selenides are mostly demanded for observed Tafel slope from the CV study was 90.77 mV dec−1
 HER application. Similar to the above discussions, the success- and from log Rct−1, the observed Tafel slope was 84.4 mV dec−1
 ful initial conversion of Cu to Cu(OH)2 and subsequent seleni- for Cu2−xSe/CF. The durability at 50 mA cm−2 for 24 h was
 zation with the precursors NaBH4 and Se could cause seleniza- assessed and observed to be highly stable even in an acidic

 Fig. 34 (a) and (b) LSV, (c) overpotential at 50 mA cm−2, and (d) the Tafel slope results of Cu2Se catalysts. Reprinted with permission from ref. 101.
 Copyright (2018) American Chemical Society.

 260 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Fig. 35 Selenization of Cu in both wet-chemical and hydrothermal methods.

 Fig. 36 (a) LSV, (b) Tafel slope, (c) galvanostatic study, and (d) TWS study of CuSe/NF catalysts. Reprinted with permission from ref. 104. Copyright
 (2020) Wiley-VCH.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 261
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 environment at such a high cathodic current density. This The electrocatalytic OER and HER activities of Cu-based sele-
 observation made clear that Cu-based selenides are promising nides were seen individually and inferred to have highly enga-
 for HER under acidic conditions with pronounced activity and ging activity and stability. Hence, it is highly desirable to
 stability. The high overpotential requirement with Cu foam is choose copper-based selenides in TWS application. In a work
 reduced much and even up to 1 V reduction in overpotential by Chakraborty et al., CuSe was electrophoretically deposited
 was observed after selenization by a hydrothermal approach, over NF and studied for both OER and HER in KOH electro-
 as reported by Anantharaj et al.103 The Cu foam was taken and lyte.105 Initially, CuSe was formed by high temperature anneal-
 treated with NaBH4 and Se in both the hydrothermal and wet- ing and after this, it was coated over NF by the electrophoretic
 chemical approach (Fig. 35). The prepared catalysts were deposition method. For the OER study, CuSe/NF just required
 screened for HER in 0.5 M H2SO4. Here, just by the seleniza- an overpotential of 297 mV at 10 mA cm−2. The observed Tafel
 tion of Cu, the overpotential was reduced remarkably. Here, slope was about 89 mV dec−1 compared to NF and CuO/NF cat-
 the observed charge transfer resistance was nearly 0.3–0.6 Ω; alysts. Here, during OER, in situ generated Cu(OH)2 layer acted
 moreover, the Tafel slope values are nearly 32–35 mV dec−1, as a real catalyst surface for facilitating O–O bond formation.
 empowering similar kinetics to that of Pt/C-based catalysts in Similarly, for HER, the required overpotential at 10 mA cm−2
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 HER. Also, the stability was further confirmed. was nearly 162 mV and the Tafel slope value was nearly
 The electrodeposition method for forming bimetallic sele- 129 mV dec−1. Here, during HER, the amorphous Cu(OH)2/
 nides along with Cu is crucial to relate the HER activity in alka- CuOx phase formed acted as the real catalyst. Hence, along
 line medium. In an interesting report, Gao et al. highlighted with Se precursors, it could easily pull the protons to the elec-
 the potentiostatic electrodeposition of Ni–Se–Cu over Ni foam, trode surface to facilitate facile electron transfer for HER. After
 which is applied as a catalyst for HER in alkaline electrolyte.104 having come to know the superior OER and HER kinetics,
 Previous reports have highlighted the conducting support to CuSe/NF as the anode and cathode was directed for TWS in 1
 be Cu foam and here in this work, Ni foam was studied. M KOH (Fig. 36a–d). To reach the benchmarking current
 Interestingly, Ni–Se–Cu showed superior HER activity and to density of 10 mA cm−2, it just required a voltage of 1.68
 reach 10 mA cm−2, it just needed 136 mV as the overpotential. V. These observations have given a view that in the future,
 Further, stability was achieved in both galvanostatic and copper-based selenides can be promising candidates for gener-
 potentiodynamic conditions. The presence of Cu here ensured ating hydrogen economically. Also, from the overall view on
 high electrical conductivity. When compared with only Ni–Se Cu-based selenides, by utilizing suitable electrodes with the
 over Ni foam, Ni–Se–Cu/NF has been found to be superior. employment of pioneering approaches, it can be further devel-

 Fig. 37 HAADF color mapping for conﬁrming the presence of Cu and Te in Cu2−xTe.

 262 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 oped from its current stage. With the assurance of activity and 10 mA cm−2, the prepared Cu2−xTe/hyd showed high activity by
 durability in both HER and OER at extreme pH conditions, acquiring an overpotential of 347 mV, whereas Cu2−xTe/wc
 copper-based selenides can be studied in detail for their high required 432 mV for the same current density. Similarly, the
 rate water electrolysis. facile charge transport phenomenon was encountered more in
 Cu2−xTe/hyd, which showed a Tafel slope value of 188 mV
 dec−1. From the EIS and ECSA calculations, it has been found
 8. Cu-Based tellurides for HER that Cu2−xTe/hyd exhibited enhanced electron transfer kinetics
 with a highly exposed active surface area. The stability was
 Cu-Based tellurides have not been explored much compared to assessed further with potentiostatic analysis, which showed
 the sulfides and selenides. Recently, Kumaravel et al. high- high stability for 12 h with less deviation in the activity
 lighted the formation of Cu2−xTe catalysts for HER in acidic (Fig. 38a–d). This study proved the necessity of Cu-based tellur-
 electrolyte.106 A comparative study was carried out to relate the ides for the water reduction potential with the adaptation of
 activities and here, wet-chemical and hydrothermal methods the following diﬀerent synthetic strategies. The activities of
 were adapted to prepare Cu2−xTe catalysts. NaBH4 and Te salts these kinds of Cu-based tellurides can further be improved by
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 were taken with Cu metal precursors and at both room temp- adopting conducting supports, growing over 3D structures,
 erature and hydrothermal conditions, Cu2−xTe was formed suc- increasing the metallic sites, and by extending with other tran-
 cessfully for the first time. The equal distribution of Cu and Te sition metal-based tellurides, as we can see from the previous
 can be evidenced from the observed HAADF mapping mode discussions on Cu-based selenides. Therefore, it is highly
 (Fig. 37a–e). Still, the oxide formation is inevitable here, which desirable to work on Cu = based tellurides to bring down the
 could retard the potential in HER studies. After this, HER energy inputs for both OER and HER. In a work by Majhi
 study was carried out to relate the performance of telluride- et al., nanocomposites of CoTe2@CuTe and FeTe2@CuTe were
 based Cu for delivering activity and durability. The HER per- developed by the hydrothermal method and assessed for HER
 formance is remarkable and in reaching the current density of in extreme pH conditions such as acidic, alkaline, and also in

 Fig. 38 (a) LSV, (b) Tafel slope, (c) EIS study, and (d) PSTAT study.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 263
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 neutral electrolytes.107 In the HER studies under acidic con- by tellurides. Under alkaline conditions, CoTe2@CuTe and
 ditions, the CoTe2@CuTe catalyst just required 58.1 mV as the FeTe2@CuTe required overpotentials of 106 and 122 mV at
 overpotential to reach 10 mA cm−2, whereas FeTe2@CuTe 10 mA cm−2, whereas selenides of the same required 129 and
 required an 86 mV overpotential. When they compared this 180 mV overpotentials. The extended activity with
 with the selenides, namely, CoSe2@ CuSe2 and FeSe2@ CuSe2, CoTe2@CuTe and FeTe2@CuTe has been attributed to the high
 still the overpotential required was large with the values of 117 ECSA and BET surface area compared to that of the selenides
 and 127.7 mV, respectively. This showed the influence of and the activities are consistent with that of the tellurides at
 copper-based tellurides with other transition metal tellurides pH 0, 7, and 14. Moreover, the synergy between the tellurides
 in HER compared to the selenide counterpart of the same of Co, Cu, and Fe is comparable to the selenides; hence, these
 metals. Under neutral conditions as well, CoTe2@CuTe telluride-based composites are highly demanded to work in
 required a lesser overpotential of 125 mV compared to that of HER in the future. Here, this study has enabled high activity
 FeTe2@CuTe of about 203 mV at the same current density. and durability with nanocomposites of Cu-based tellurides
 Here too, the selenide counterparts required higher overpoten- with both Co and Fe. In the future, other transition metal-
 tials of 225 and 252 mV, which is far higher than that required based tellurides can be adjoined with these Cu-based tellur-
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 ides for extended activity in HER applications in acidic
 environments.

 9. Cu-Based phosphides for OER and
 HER
 Phosphides of Cu have been studied extensively for electro-
 catalytic water splitting because of its metalloid nature with
 high electrical conductivity properties. Phosphide-based tran-
 sition metal catalysts have been found to show enhancement
 in the OER because of the synergistic enhancement. In HER as
 well, the presence of phosphide (P3−) ions can eﬀectively
 anchor protons with a high rate activity. Tian et al. showed the
 formation of Cu3P nanowire arrays over Cu foam, which has
 been used as an electrode for HER in acid.108 The increased
 HER activity was ascribed to the Cu and pendant base P,
 Fig. 39 Stability study of Cu3P/CF electrodes during cycling and PSTAT which could eﬀectively catalyze the reaction with ease. For
 analysis. Reprinted with permission from ref. 108. Copyright (2014) comparison, Cu3P microparticles were also compared. For
 Wiley-VCH. reaching 10 mA cm−2 current density, Cu3P NA/CF showed an

 Fig. 40 Scheme showing the formation of NiCu phosphides over NF for HER. Reprinted with permission from ref. 109. Copyright (2018) Elsevier.

 264 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 onset potential of 62 mV, whereas Cu3P MP/CF required LSV curve after cycling showed very less degradation of the
 190 mV overpotential as the onset potential. The electron activity (Fig. 39). The HER activity of these Cu-based phos-
 transport was facile in Cu3P NA/CF, which showed 67 mV phides can be enhanced by the addition of other transition
 dec−1, whereas Cu3P MP/CF demanded 96 mV dec−1. These metal-based phosphides. In an interesting work carried out by
 findings exhibit the eﬀect of the nanostructures, which have a Chu et al., the HER activity was enhanced with Ni2−xCux-P
 large number of electrochemically accessible active sites for nanosheets in alkaline medium.109 Here, NiCu LDH was for-
 HER. From the stability study, it was confirmed that these mulated over Ni foam, which on subsequent phosphorization
 Cu3P-based catalysts could show high rate stability and the resulted in Ni2−xCux-P/NF and was applied for HER (Fig. 40).
 The NiCu LDH is poor in HER and required an overpotential
 of 136 mV. Also, only Ni2P and Cu3P required comparatively
 low overpotentials of 103 mV and 117 mV, respectively. This is
 still higher than that of NiCu LDH, thus showing improvisa-
 tion in the activity with phosphorization. The stoichiometries
 of Ni and Cu were varied in the synthesis of Ni2−xCux-P/NF and
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 among them, Ni1.8Cu0.8P/NF showed the highest activity and
 the required a very small overpotential of 78 mV for 10 mA
 cm−2. Also, the observed Tafel slope is very less at 70 mV dec−1
 compared to that of NiCu LDH and mono-metallic phos-
 phides. Moreover, the stability of these bimetallic phosphides
 is highly admirable and no noticeable deviation was observed
 after the cycling study. Here, the influence Cu is to modify the
 Fermi level and to eﬀectively assist the desorption of H2 mole-
 cule. From these observations of Ni2−xCux-P/NF as eﬀective cat-
 alysts in HER, other transition metals can also be added and
 with a variation in the stoichiometry, the HER activity can be
 enhanced in the future. Since other transition metal-based
 phosphides such as Ni and Co have been studied extensively
 Fig. 41 Scheme showing the formation of Cu3P/NF over NF for TWS. for both OER and HER, the TWS with Cu-based phosphides
 Reprinted with permission from ref. 110. Copyright (2016) American will be interesting to apply in order to obtain a reduction in
 Chemical Society. the overpotentials for OER and HER. Han et al. have developed

 Fig. 42 (a) LSV and (b) the two-electrode set-up for Cu3P catalysts in KOH. (c) The scheme and (d) PSTAT analysis for 12 h. Reprinted with per-
 mission from ref. 110. Copyright (2016) American Chemical Society.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 265
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 Cu3P/NF by hydrothermal treatment and subsequently phos- overvoltage of 1.67 V, indicating only 440 mV as the overpoten-
 phorization at high temperatures (Fig. 41a and b).110 For OER, tial. Moreover, the onset overpotential was just 270 mV for
 Cu3P/NF required an overpotential of 320 mV at 10 mA cm−2 TWS with Cu3P/NF electrodes (Fig. 42a–d). Further, bulk elec-
 with a Tafel slope of 54 mV dec−1 in 1 M KOH. Similarly, for trolysis for 10 h further confirmed the robustness of Cu3P/NF
 HER, the demanded overpotential was just 105 mV and the in industrial water splitting. From this study, the utilization of
 Tafel slope was nearly 42 mV dec−1. Due to the outstanding Cu3P as eﬀective alternative for the other transition metal-
 OER and HER activities of Cu3P/NF, it has been applied in based catalysts such as Ni and Co has been explored. From the
 TWS by keeping it as both the anode and the cathode. The observed results, it can be seen that the phosphides of Cu can
 catalytic current density of 10 mA cm−2 was achieved at an be the better alternative for replacing scarce metals. Moreover,

 Table 1 Comparison table of previously reported Cu-based nanostructures for oxygen evolution reaction

 S. no. Catalyst Study and medium Overpotential (10 mA cm−2) Tafel slope (mV dec−1) Ref.
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 −2
 1 CuO nanowires OER, 1 M KOH 430 (1 mA cm ) 61.4 77
 2 CuO nanosheets bundles OER, 1 M KOH 350 59 78
 3 CuO NPs OER, 1 M NaOH 290 64 79
 4 CuO nanosheets OER, 1 M KOH 320 135 67
 5 CuO nanocubes OER, 1 M KOH 320 149 67
 6 CuO nanoleaves OER, 1 M KOH 280 106 67
 7 CuO nanoflowers OER, 1 M KOH 270 84 67
 8 HS-CuO–C/CF OER, 1 M KOH 286 66.3 80
 9 CuO-FTO OER, 0.2 M phosphate buﬀer 500 (1 mA cm−2) 57 81
 10 Co-CuO NA/CF OER, 1 M KOH 299 (50 mA cm−2) 134 71
 11 NiCuOx NPs OER, 1 M Na2CO3 320 (onset overpotential) 120 82
 15 Cu@CoFe LDH OER, 1 M KOH 240 44.4 86
 17 Cu@CoFe LDH TWS, 1 M KOH 451 — 86
 18 Cu-NiFe LDH OER, 1 M KOH 199 27.8 87
 20 Cu-NiFe LDH TWS, 1 M KOH 310 — 87
 21 Cu(OH)2-NiFe LDH OER, 1 M KOH 283 88 88
 22 SAV-NiCux LDH OER, 1 M KOH 290 45 89
 23 NiCu LDH/CC OER, 1 M KOH 290 42.5 90
 24 Cu2S nanorods OER, 1 M KOH 270 128 92
 25 Cu2S NA-50@CF OER, 1 M KOH 360 (50 mA cm−2) 75 93
 26 Cu2S/TiO2/Cu2S OER, 1 M KOH 284 72 76
 27 Cu2S microhexagons OER, 1 M KOH 330 106.93 96
 29 Cu2S NRs@CoS/CF OER, 1 M KOH 275 54 98
 32 Selenized Cu3Sn@Cu foam OER, 1 M KOH 384 (50 mA cm−2) 177 111
 33 Cu2Se-A/CF OER, 1 M KOH 297 72.8 99
 34 Cu2Se/CF OER, 1 M KOH 200 150 100
 36 CuSe/NF OER, 1 M KOH 297 89 105
 37 CuSe/NF OER, 1 M KOH 162 128 105
 38 CuSe/NF TWS, 1 M KOH 450 — 105
 41 CoTe2@CuTe OER, 1 M PBS 106 67.6 107
 45 Cu3P/NF OER, 1 M KOH 320 54 110
 47 Cu3P/NF TWS, 1 M KOH 440 — 110

 Table 2 Comparison table of previously reported Cu-based nanostructures for hydrogen evolution reaction

 S. no Catalyst Study and medium Overpotential (10 mA cm−2) Tafel slope (mV dec−1) Ref.

 12 Cu/Cu2O–CuO/rGO/CF HER, 1 M KOH 105 12 84
 13 Cu(poly)-polished HER, 1 M KOH 320 (5 mA cm−2) 13 83
 14 Co3O4–CuO HER, 1 M KOH 288 14 85
 16 Cu@CoFe LDH HER, 1 M KOH 171 16 86
 19 Cu-NiFe LDH HER, 1 M KOH 116 19 87
 28 Cu2S microhexagons HER, 1 M KOH 312 28 96
 30 Cu2S NRs@CoS/CF HER, 1 M KOH 235 30 98
 31 Cu2S/MoS2 HER, 1 M KOH 91 31 97
 35 Cu2Se-ch/CF HER, 0.5 M H2SO4 212 ± 5 35 69
 39 Cu2−xTe/hyd HER, 0.5 M H2SO4 347 39 106
 40 CoTe2@CuTe HER, 0.5 M H2SO4 68 59.94 107
 42 CoTe2@CuTe HER, 1 M KOH 125.8 69.53 107
 43 Cu3P NW/CF HER, 0.5 M H2SO4 143 67 108
 44 Ni1.8Cu0.2-P HER, 1 M KOH 78 70 109
 46 Cu3P/NF HER, 1 M KOH 105 42 110

 266 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 their stability in acidic and alkaline environments further other highly active selenides of interest such as Ni, which is
 assists their usage as promising alternatives. Moreover, these highly active in water splitting, as far as 3d transition metal-
 Cu-based phosphides can be added with other transition based catalysts are concerned.
 metal-based catalysts with diﬀerent approaches and hence, • Tellurides of Cu have been recently explored for HER
 TWS with Cu-based catalysts can be a better alternative for studies and composites of CuTe with other 3d transition
 scarce metals in the future. The activities of Cu-based catalysts metal-based tellurides such as Ni and Fe under diﬀerent pH
 for OER and HER have been tabulated and are provided herein conditions. Still, tellurides of Cu have shown high rate activity
 as Tables 1 and 2, respectively. and stability but it has to be explored further in the future.
 • Cu-Based phosphides have been explored for both OER
 and HER with impressive activity and durability. Direct growth
 10. Conclusions and future over 3D conducting supports has ensured an increase in the
 perspectives activity. Because of the synergistic enhancement in OER with
 phosphide-based catalysts and HER activity with the phos-
 Here, in this review, the utilization of Cu-based catalysts for phide ions, total water splitting was ensured with high rate
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 OER, HER, and TWS have been extensively investigated. The endurance compared to that of oxides and hydroxides.
 nanostructures of Cu-based oxides, hydroxides, sulfides, sele- In the future, Cu-based catalysts can be studied with pio-
 nides, tellurides, and phosphides have been studied and their neering modifications such as increase in the metal active
 merits have been explored in detail. The possibilities of enhan- sites, doping with other active elements, with conducting sup-
 cing the activity and durability with Cu-based catalysts were ports, and growth over conducting 3D supports. Moreover,
 studied, such as enhancing the activity with the formation of vacancy creation in Cu-based structures, especially in sulfides,
 nanostructures, growing over 3D conducting supports, enhan- can be done without disrupting the structure. Selenide-based
 cing the electrical conductivity with graphene, increasing the catalysts can be further enhanced with the stoichiometric vari-
 metallic active sites by diﬀerent methods such as electrodepo- ations and the method of synthesis adopted, and also by com-
 sition, adding other transition metals, and also by varying the bining with other active elements. The active nature of phos-
 stoichiometric ratios. Following are the summarized important phides is witnessed well with other transition metal-based cat-
 observations for the Cu-based catalysts. alysts and in Cu-based phosphides as well, enhanced activity
 • From the observed findings, Cu-based oxides and hydrox- and durability have been achieved. From this comprehensive
 ides have shown comparably lesser activity in OER and HER. overview on Cu-based catalysts, it is well understood that Cu
 Even though the stability is assured at low current densities, can be an eﬀective material for empowering water splitting
 when moving to high current densities, the observed deviation with high activities and stabilities. Further, in diﬀerent forms
 in the activity is still noticed. Growth in conducting supports such as oxides, hydroxides, LDHs, sulfides, selenides, and
 can bring high stability under prolonged exposure. In Cu- phosphides, it has shown prominence as an alternative to
 based oxides, CuO and Cu(OH)2 showed commendable activity noble metals. Hence, in the future, with Cu-based nano-
 for OER because of the formation of metastable CuIII ions. In structures, there are many possibilities by which the electro-
 case of HER for Cu-based oxides, since the electrical conduc- catalytic activities can be enhanced such as doping with other
 tivity is poor, the activity was comparatively lesser. metals, in situ growth on 3D metal foams, and with conducting
 • Similarly, LDH-based materials of Cu with other tran- supports. There are more structural modifications that can be
 sition metals such as Ni have been studied and here, the done to increase the surface active sites with Cu-based cata-
 activity and durability were enhanced for OER. The engineer- lysts and in the future, these can act as promising alternatives
 ing of Cu with other highly active NiFe and NiCo LDHs was to noble elements for the viable hydrogen production with
 studied and even in TWS, the activity and durability were electrocatalytic water splitting.
 much pronounced with the presence of Cu, which enhanced
 the electrical conductivity.
 • In case of sulfides, the activity in OER and HER is high Conﬂicts of interest
 compared to oxide-based catalysts. Even though sulfides act as
 pre-catalysts and it is the oxide or hydroxide phase that is There are no conflicts to declare.
 formed during the OER that acts as a real catalyst, the pres-
 ence of sulfide ions along with the oxide/hydroxide surface
 could enhance the activity. Moreover, sulfides of Cu were Acknowledgements
 added with other transition metal-based sulfides and applied
 for both OER and HER with high activity and durability. We wish to acknowledge Dr N. Kalaiselvi, Director,
 • For selenides, the activities are large for OER and HER CSIR-CECRI for their continuous support and
 and with the diﬀerent methods of approach of selenization, encouragement. K. Karthick and Sam Sankar wish to acknowl-
 Cu-based selenides have been observed to be highly active cat- edge UGC for SRF award. Arun Karmakar and Sangeetha
 alysts for OER, HER, and in TWS studies. Here also, the influ- Kumaravel wish to acknowledge CSIR-JRF and DST INSPIRE
 ence in OER and HER was enhanced by compositing with fellowship, respectively. S. Kundu wishes to acknowledge the

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 267
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 Department of Science and Technology (DST) for HCF structure, activity and mechanism, Mater. Today Energy,
 (Hydrogen and Fuel Cell) research funding with the number # 2017, 6, 1–26.
 DST/TMD/HFC/2K18/60 on 7-10-2019 having CSIR-CECRI OM 15 J. Landon, E. Demeter, N. Inoglu, C. Keturakis,
 number 18-29-03/(31/19)-TTBD-CSIR-CECRI on 24/10/2019. I. E. Wachs, R. Vasic, A. I. Frenkel and J. R. Kitchin,
 Spectroscopic characterization of mixed Fe–Ni oxide elec-
 trocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction in alkaline
 References electrolytes, ACS Catal., 2012, 2, 1793–1801.
 16 M. Gong, W. Zhou, M. C. Tsai, J. Zhou, M. Guan,
 1 N. L. Garland, D. C. Papageorgopoulos and J. M. Stanford, M. C. Lin, B. Zhang, Y. Hu, D. Y. Wang, J. Yang,
 Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology: Progress, challenges, S. J. Pennycook, B. J. Hwang and H. Dai, Nanoscale nickel
 and future Directions, Energy Procedia, 2012, 28, 2–11. oxide/nickel heterostructures for active hydrogen evol-
 2 M. Momirlan and T. N. Veziroglu, Current status of hydro- ution electrocatalysis, Nat. Commun., 2014, 5, 1–6.
 gen energy, Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev., 2002, 6, 17 J. Yin, P. Zhou, L. An, L. Huang, C. Shao, J. Wang, H. Liu
 141–179. and P. Xi, Self-supported nanoporous NiCo2O4 nanowires
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 3 J. L. Kolar, Alternative energy technologies, Environ. Qual. with cobalt–nickel layered oxide nanosheets for overall
 Manag., 2000, 10, 45–54. water splitting, Nanoscale, 2016, 8, 1390–1400.
 4 S. Shafiee and E. Topal, When will fossil fuel reserves be 18 J. Chi, H. Yu, G. Li, L. Fu, J. Jia, X. Gao, B. Yi and Z. Shao,
 diminished?, Energy Policy, 2009, 37, 181–189. Nickel/cobalt oxide as a highly eﬃcient OER electrocata-
 5 J. R. Rostrup-Nielsen, Fuels and energy for the future: the lyst in an alkaline polymer electrolyte water electrolyzer,
 role of catalysis, Catal. Rev. – Sci. Eng., 2004, 46, 247– RSC Adv., 2016, 6, 90397–90400.
 270. 19 C. Zhang, B. Xin, S. Duan, A. Jiang, B. Zhang, Z. Li and
 6 S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Sakthikumar, K. Karthick, J. Hao, Controllable 1D and 2D cobalt oxide and cobalt
 S. Mishra and S. Kundu, Recent trends and perspectives selenide nanostructures as highly eﬃcient electrocatalysts
 in electrochemical water splitting with an emphasis on for the oxygen evolution reaction, Chem. – Asian J., 2018,
 sulfide, selenide, and phosphide catalysts of Fe, Co, and 13, 2700–2707.
 Ni: a review, ACS Catal., 2016, 6, 8069–8097. 20 L. Liardet and X. Hu, Amorphous cobalt vanadium oxide
 7 T. Reier, M. Oezaslan and P. Strasser, Electrocatalytic as a highly active electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution, ACS
 oxygen evolution reaction (OER) on Ru, Ir, and Pt cata- Catal., 2018, 8, 644–650.
 lysts: a comparative study of nanoparticles and bulk 21 K. Fominykh, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, J. Sicklinger,
 materials, ACS Catal., 2012, 2, 1765–1772. G. Stefanic, M. Doblinger, A. Muller, A. Pokharel,
 8 S. Fierro, T. Nagel, H. Baltruschat and C. Comninellis, S. Bocklein, C. Scheu, T. Bein and D. Fattakhova-Rohlfing,
 Investigation of the oxygen evolution reaction on Ti/IrO2 Iron-doped nickel oxide nanocrystals as highly eﬃcient
 electrodes using isotope labelling and on-line mass spec- electrocatalysts for alkaline water splitting, ACS Nano,
 trometry, Electrochem. Commun., 2007, 9, 1969–1974. 2015, 9, 5180–5188.
 9 W. Hu, Y. Wang, X. Hu, Y. Zhou and S. Chen, Three- 22 J. Qi, W. Zhang, R. Xiang, K. Liu, H. Y. Wang, M. Chen,
 dimensional ordered macroporous IrO2 as electrocatalyst Y. Han and R. Cao, Porous Nickel-Iron Oxide as a Highly
 for oxygen evolution reaction in acidic medium, J. Mater. Eﬃcient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Evolution Reaction,
 Chem., 2012, 22, 6010–6016. Adv. Sci., 2015, 2, 1–8.
 10 A. T. Marshall and R. G. Haverkamp, Electrocatalytic 23 B. Bayatsarmadi, Y. Zheng, C. S. S. Casari, V. Russo and
 activity of IrO2–RuO2 supported on Sb-doped SnO2 nano- S. Qiao, Pulsed laser deposition of porous N-carbon sup-
 particles, Electrochim. Acta, 2010, 55, 1978–1984. ported cobalt (oxide) thin films for highly eﬃcient oxygen
 11 J. X. Feng, S. Y. Tong, Y. X. Tong and G. R. Li, Pt-like evolution, Chem. Commun., 2016, 52, 11947–11950.
 hydrogen evolution electrocatalysis on PANI/CoP hybrid 24 H. Jin, J. Wang, D. Su, Z. Wei, Z. Pang and Y. Wang, In
 nanowires by weakening the shackles of hydrogen ions on situ cobalt–cobalt oxide/N-doped carbon hybrids as
 the surfaces of catalysts, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140, superior bifunctional electrocatalysts for hydrogen and
 5118–5126. oxygen evolution, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2015, 137, 2688–2694.
 12 L. Han, S. Dong and E. Wang, Transition metal (Co, Ni, 25 T. Gao, Z. Jin, M. Liao, J. Xiao, H. Yuan and D. Xiao, A tri-
 and Fe) based electrocatalysts for the water oxidation reac- metallic V–Co–Fe oxide nanoparticle as an eﬃcient and
 tion, Adv. Mater., 2016, 28, 9266–9291. stable electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction,
 13 W. T. Hong, M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, A. Grimaud, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2015, 3, 17763–17770.
 J. Suntivich and Y. Shao-Horn, Toward the rational design 26 M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou,
 of non-precious transition metal oxides for oxygen electro- J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei and H. Dai, An advanced Ni–Fe
 catalysis, Energy Environ. Sci., 2015, 8, 1404–1427. layered double hydroxide electrocatalyst for water oxi-
 14 S. Anantharaj, K. Karthick and S. Kundu, Evolution of dation, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2013, 135, 8452–8455.
 layered double hydroxides (LDH) as high performance 27 K. Y. Ma, J. P. Cheng, F. Liu and X. Bin Zhang, Co-Fe
 water oxidation electrocatalysts: A review with insights on layered double hydroxides nanosheets vertically grown on

 268 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 carbon fiber cloth for electrochemical capacitors, J. Alloys 40 S. Jin, Are metal chalcogenides, nitrides, and phosphides
 Compd., 2016, 679, 277–284. oxygen evolution catalysts or bifunctional catalysts?, ACS
 28 H. Liang, A. N. Gandi, C. Xia, M. N. Hedhili, D. H. Anjum, Energy Lett., 2017, 2, 1937–1938.
 U. Schwingenschlogl and H. N. Alshareef, Amorphous 41 A. Sumboja, T. An, H. Y. Goh, M. Lübke, D. P. Howard,
 NiFe-OH/NiFeP electrocatalyst fabricated at low tempera- Y. Xu, A. D. Handoko, Y. Zong and Z. Liu, One-step facile
 ture for water oxidation applications, ACS Energy Lett., synthesis of cobalt phosphides for hydrogen evolution
 2017, 2, 1035–1042. reaction catalysts in acidic and alkaline medium, ACS
 29 M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, L. Trotochaud, A. M. Smith and Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2018, 10, 15673–15680.
 S. W. Boettcher, Cobalt–iron (oxy) hydroxide oxygen evol- 42 X. Zou and Y. Zhang, Noble metal-free hydrogen evolution
 ution electrocatalysts: the role of structure and compo- catalysts for water splitting, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2015, 44,
 sition on activity, stability, and mechanism, J. Am. Chem. 5148–5180.
 Soc., 2015, 137, 3638–3648. 43 M. Zeng and Y. Li, Recent advances in heterogeneous elec-
 30 X. L. Guo, X. Y. Liu, X. D. Hao, S. J. Zhu, F. Dong, trocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction, J. Mater.
 Z. Q. Wen and Y. X. Zhang, Nickel-manganese layered Chem. A, 2015, 3, 14942–14962.
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 double hydroxide nanosheets supported on nickel foam 44 J. Xu, J. Li, D. Xiong, B. Zhang, Y. Liu, K. H. Wu,
 for high-performance supercapacitor electrode materials, I. Amorim, W. Li and L. Liu, Trends in activity for the
 Electrochim. Acta, 2016, 194, 179–186. oxygen evolution reaction on transition metal (M = Fe, Co,
 31 Y. Ni, L. Yao, Y. Wang, B. Liu, M. Cao and C. Hu, Ni) phosphide pre-catalysts, Chem. Sci., 2018, 9, 3470–
 Construction of hierarchically porous graphitized carbon- 3476.
 supported NiFe layered double hydroxides with a core– 45 J. F. Callejas, J. M. McEnaney, C. G. Read, J. C. Crompton,
 shell structure as an enhanced electrocatalyst for the A. J. Biacchi, E. J. Popczun, T. R. Gordon, N. S. Lewis and
 oxygen evolution reaction, Nanoscale, 2017, 9, 11596– R. E. Schaak, Electrocatalytic and photocatalytic hydrogen
 11604. production from acidic and neutral-pH aqueous solutions
 32 H. M. Sun, Y. X. Ye, Z. F. Tian, S. L. Wu, J. Liu and using iron phosphide nanoparticles, ACS Nano, 2014, 8,
 C. H. Liang, Ni 3+ doped cobalt–nickel layered double 11101–11107.
 hydroxides as high-performance electrode materials for 46 J. Joo, T. Kim, J. Lee, S. Il Choi and K. Lee, Morphology-
 supercapacitors, RSC Adv., 2017, 7, 49010–49014. Controlled Metal Sulfides and Phosphides for
 33 L. J. Foruzin, Z. Rezvani, Y. H. Shishavan and B. Habibi, Electrochemical Water Splitting, Adv. Mater., 2019, 31, 1–
 Ni2Zn0. 5Fe-LDH modified carbon paste electrode as an 23.
 eﬃcient electrocatalyst for water oxidation in neutral 47 T. Guo, Y. Song, Z. Sun, Y. Wu, Y. Xia, Y. Li, J. Sun,
 media, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2017, 1–11. K. Jiang, S. Dou and J. Sun, Bio-templated formation of
 34 M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, L. Trotochaud, A. M. Smith and defect-abundant VS2 as a bifunctional material toward
 S. W. Boettcher, Cobalt–iron (oxy) hydroxide oxygen evol- high-performance hydrogen evolution reactions and
 ution electrocatalysts: the role of structure and compo- lithium−sulfur batteries, J. Energy Chem., 2020, 42, 34–42.
 sition on activity, stability, and mechanism, J. Am. Chem. 48 J. Huang, S. Wen, G. Chen, W. Chen, G. Wang, H. Fan,
 Soc., 2015, 137, 3638–3648. D. Chen, C. Song, M. Li, X. Wang, L. Li, M. Tao, B. Li,
 35 W. Ma, R. Ma, C. Wang, J. Liang, X. Liu, K. Zhou and X. Wang and K. Ostrikov, Multiphase Ni-Fe-selenide
 T. Sasaki, A superlattice of alternately stacked Ni–Fe nanosheets for highly-eﬃcient and ultra-stable water elec-
 hydroxide nanosheets and graphene for eﬃcient splitting trolysis, Appl. Catal., B, 2020, 277, 119220.
 of water, ACS Nano, 2015, 9, 1977–1984. 49 Z. Gao, J. Qi, M. Chen, W. Zhang and R. Cao, An
 36 X. Gao, X. Long, H. Yu, X. Pan and Z. Yi, Ni nanoparticles Electrodeposited NiSe for Electrocatalytic Hydrogen and
 decorated NiFe layered double hydroxide as bifunctional Oxygen Evolution Reactions in Alkaline Solution,
 electrochemical catalyst, J. Electrochem. Soc., 2017, 164, Electrochim. Acta, 2017, 224, 412–418.
 H307–H310. 50 Q. Zhao, D. Zhong, L. Liu, D. Li, G. Hao and J. Li, Facile
 37 P. F. Liu, S. Yang, B. Zhang and H. G. Yang, Defect-rich fabrication of robust 3D Fe-NiSe nanowires supported on
 ultrathin cobalt–iron layered double hydroxide for electro- nickel foam as a highly eﬃcient, durable oxygen evolution
 chemical overall water splitting, ACS Appl. Mater. catalyst, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5, 14639–14645.
 Interfaces, 2016, 8, 34474–34481. 51 Y. Shi, Y. Wan, R. Liu, B. Tu and D. Zhao, Synthesis of
 38 H. Chen, L. Hu, M. Chen, Y. Yan and L. Wu, Nickel–cobalt highly ordered mesoporous crystalline WS2 and MoS2 via
 layered double hydroxide nanosheets for high perform- a high-temperature reductive sulfuration route, J. Am.
 ance supercapacitor electrode materials, Adv. Funct. Chem. Soc., 2007, 129, 9522–9531.
 Mater., 2014, 24, 934–942. 52 Q. Liu, Q. Shang, A. Khalil, Q. Fang, S. Chen, Q. He,
 39 Y. Shi and B. Zhang, Recent advances in transition metal T. Xiang, D. Liu, Q. Zhang, Y. Luo and L. Song, In situ
 phosphide nanomaterials: synthesis and applications in Integration of a Metallic 1T-MoS2/CdS Heterostructure as
 hydrogen evolution reaction, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2016, 45, a means To Promote Visible-Light-Driven Photocatalytic
 1529–1541. Hydrogen Evolution, ChemCatChem, 2016, 8, 2614–2619.

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 269
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 53 Y. Yang, K. Zhang, H. Lin, X. Li, H. C. Chan, L. Yang and 65 C. C. Hou, C. J. Wang, Q. Q. Chen, X. J. Lv, W. F. Fu and
 Q. Gao, Heteronanorods as Eﬃcient and Stable Y. Chen, Rapid synthesis of ultralong Fe(OH)3:Cu(OH)2
 Bifunctional Electrocatalysts for Overall Water Splitting, core-shell nanowires self-supported on copper foam as a
 ACS Catal., 2017, 7, 2357–2366. highly eﬃcient 3D electrode for water oxidation, Chem.
 54 Q. Liu, Q. Fang, W. Chu, Y. Wan, X. Li, W. Xu, M. Habib, Commun., 2016, 52, 14470–14473.
 S. Tao, Y. Zhou, D. Liu, T. Xiang, A. Khalil, X. Wu, 66 Z. Chen, C. X. Kronawitter, X. Yang, Y. W. Yeh, N. Yao and
 M. Chhowalla, P. M. Ajayan and L. Song, Electron-Doped B. E. Koel, The promoting eﬀect of tetravalent cerium on
 1T-MoS2 via Interface Engineering for Enhanced the oxygen evolution activity of copper oxide catalysts,
 Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Evolution, Chem. Mater., 2017, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2017, 19, 31545–31552.
 29, 4738–4744. 67 F. Arshad, A. Munir, Q. Q. Kashif, T. ul Haq, J. Iqbal,
 55 Q. He, X. Chen, S. Chen, L. Liu, F. Zhou, X. B. Li and F. Sher and I. Hussain, Controlled development of higher-
 G. Wang, Electrochemical Hydrogen Evolution at the dimensional nanostructured copper oxide thin films as
 Interface of Monolayer VS2 and Water from First- binder free electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction,
 Principles Calculations, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2019, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2020, 45, 16583–16590.
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 11, 2944–2949. 68 J. Kang, J. Chen, J. Sheng, J. Xie, X. Z. Fu, R. Sun and
 56 H. Wu, X. Lu, G. Zheng and G. W. Ho, Topotactic C. P. Wong, Pd Nanoparticle-Interspersed Hierarchical Copper
 Engineering of Ultrathin 2D Nonlayered Nickel Selenides Hydroxide@Nickel Cobalt Hydroxide Carbonate Tubular
 for Full Water Electrolysis, Adv. Energy Mater., 2018, 8, 1– Arrays as Eﬃcient Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Evolution
 9. Reaction, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng., 2019, 7, 16459–16466.
 57 J. Y. Zhang, L. Lv, Y. Tian, Z. Li, X. Ao, Y. Lan, J. Ji and 69 S. Anantharaj, T. S. Amarnath, E. Subhashini,
 C. Wang, Rational design of cobalt-iron selenides for S. Chatterjee, K. C. Swaathini, K. Karthick and S. Kundu,
 highly eﬃcient electrochemical water oxidation, ACS Appl. Shrinking the Hydrogen Overpotential of Cu by 1 v and
 Mater. Interfaces, 2017, 9, 33833–33840. Imparting Ultralow Charge Transfer Resistance for
 58 X. Xu, F. Song and X. Hu, A nickel iron diselenide-derived Enhanced H2 Evolution, ACS Catal., 2018, 8, 5686–5697.
 eﬃcient oxygen-evolution catalyst, Nat. Commun., 2016, 7, 70 L. Gan, L. Hu, H. An, J. Fang, Y. Lai and J. Li, Sequential
 1–7. Engineering of Ternary CuFeNi with a Vertically Layered
 59 Q. Zhang, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, C. Song, S. Chu, Structure for Eﬃcient and Bifunctional Catalysis of the
 R. Zhang, G. Wang, C. Li and K. K. Ostrikov, Bi-metallic Oxygen and Hydrogen Evolution Reactions, ACS Appl.
 nitroxide nanodot-decorated tri-metallic sulphide Mater. Interfaces, 2018, 10, 41465–41470.
 nanosheets by on-electrode plasma-hydrothermal sprouting 71 X. Xiong, C. You, Z. Liu, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, Co-Doped
 for overall water splitting, Appl. Catal., B, 2020, 261, 118254. CuO Nanoarray: An Eﬃcient Oxygen Evolution Reaction
 60 D. Chen, Z. Xu, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, J. Huang, Electrocatalyst with Enhanced Activity, ACS Sustainable
 C. Song, C. Li, K. (Ken) Ostrikov and K. (Ken) Ostrikov, Chem. Eng., 2018, 6, 2883–2887.
 Just add water to split water: ultrahigh-performance 72 S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Karthick, S. Sam Sankar,
 bifunctional electrocatalysts fabricated using eco-friendly K. Sangeetha, P. E. Karthik and S. Kundu, Precision and
 heterointerfacing of NiCo diselenides, J. Mater. Chem. A, correctness in the evaluation of electrocatalytic water split-
 2020, 8, 12035–12044. ting: Revisiting activity parameters with a critical assess-
 61 G. Wang, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, C. Song, D. Chen, ment, Energy Environ. Sci., 2018, 11, 744–771.
 Y. Du, C. Li and K. K. Ostrikov, Trimetallic Mo–Ni–Co sele- 73 H. Dau, C. Limberg, T. Reier, M. Risch, S. Roggan and
 nides nanorod electrocatalysts for highly-eﬃcient and P. Strasser, The Mechanism of Water Oxidation: From
 ultra-stable hydrogen evolution, Nano Energy, 2020, 71, Electrolysis via Homogeneous to Biological Catalysis,
 104637. ChemCatChem, 2010, 2, 724–761.
 62 D. Chen, Z. Xu, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, C. Song, 74 J. O. Bockris and E. C. Potter, The Mechanism of the
 K. Zheng, Z. Zhang, X. Hu, H. Choi and K. (Ken) Ostrikov, Cathodic Hydrogen Evolution Reaction, J. Electrochem.
 Mulberry–Inspired Nickel–Niobium Phosphide on Soc., 2007, 99, 169.
 Plasma–Defect–Engineered Carbon Support for High– 75 S. Anantharaj and S. Kundu, Do the Evaluation Parameters
 Performance Hydrogen Evolution, Small, 2020, 2004843. Reflect Intrinsic Activity of Electrocatalysts in Electrochemical
 63 Y. Lee, J. Suntivich, K. J. May, E. E. Perry and Y. Shao- Water Splitting?, ACS Energy Lett., 2019, 1260–1264.
 Horn, Synthesis and Activities of Rutile IrO2 and RuO2 76 Y. Deng, A. D. Handoko, Y. Du, S. Xi and B. S. Yeo, In Situ
 Nanoparticles for Oxygen Evolution in Acid and Alkaline Raman Spectroscopy of Copper and Copper Oxide
 Solutions, J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2012, 3, 399–404. Surfaces during Electrochemical Oxygen Evolution
 64 J. Zhang, T. Wang, D. Pohl, B. Rellinghaus, R. Dong, Reaction: Identification of CuIII Oxides as Catalytically
 S. Liu, X. Zhuang and X. Feng, Interface Engineering of Active Species, ACS Catal., 2016, 6, 2473–2481.
 MoS2/Ni3S2 Heterostructures for Highly Enhanced 77 X. Liu, S. Cui, Z. Sun, Y. Ren, X. Zhang and P. Du, Self-
 Electrochemical Overall-Water-Splitting Activity, Angew. Supported Copper Oxide Electrocatalyst for Water
 Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55, 6702–6707. Oxidation at Low Overpotential and Confirmation of Its

 270 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021
 View Article Online

 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers Review

 Robustness by Cu K-Edge X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy, by ionic reductive complexation extraction for eﬃcient
 J. Phys. Chem. C, 2016, 120, 831–840. water oxidation, Chem. Sci., 2019, 10, 8354–8359.
 78 S. M. Pawar, B. S. Pawar, B. Hou, J. Kim, A. T. Aqueel 90 Y. Zheng, J. Qiao, J. Yuan, J. Shen, A. jun Wang, P. Gong,
 Ahmed, H. S. Chavan, Y. Jo, S. Cho, A. I. Inamdar, X. Weng and L. Niu, Three-dimensional NiCu layered
 J. L. Gunjakar, H. Kim, S. Cha and H. Im, Self-assembled double hydroxide nanosheets array on carbon cloth for
 two-dimensional copper oxide nanosheet bundles as an enhanced oxygen evolution, Electrochim. Acta, 2018, 282,
 eﬃcient oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalyst 735–742.
 for water splitting applications, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5, 91 S. Hu, Y. Tan, C. Feng, H. Wu, J. Zhang and H. Mei,
 12747–12751. Synthesis of N doped NiZnCu-layered double hydroxides
 79 T. N. Huan, G. Rousse, S. Zanna, I. T. Lucas, X. Xu, with reduced graphene oxide on nickel foam as versatile
 N. Menguy, V. Mougel and M. Fontecave, A Dendritic electrocatalysts for hydrogen production in hybrid-water
 Nanostructured Copper Oxide Electrocatalyst for the electrolysis, J. Power Sources, 2020, 453, 227872.
 Oxygen Evolution Reaction, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2017, 92 S. B. Kale, P. T. Babar, J. H. Kim and C. D. Lokhande,
 56, 4792–4796. Synthesis of one dimensional Cu2S nanorods using a self-
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 80 B. Zhang, C. Li, G. Yang, K. Huang, J. Wu, Z. Li, X. Cao, grown sacrificial template for the electrocatalytic oxygen
 D. Peng, S. Hao and Y. Huang, Nanostructured CuO/C evolution reaction (OER), New J. Chem., 2020, 44, 8771–
 Hollow Shell@3D Copper Dendrites as a Highly Eﬃcient 8777.
 Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Evolution Reaction, ACS Appl. 93 Y. Wang, Z. Ge, X. Li, J. Zhao, B. Ma and Y. Chen, Cu2S
 Mater. Interfaces, 2018, 10, 23807–23812. nanorod arrays with coarse surfaces to enhance the elec-
 81 J. Wang, L. Zhu, L. Ji and Z. Chen, Preparation of nano- trochemically active surface area for water oxidation,
 structured Cu(OH)2 and CuO electrocatalysts for water oxi- J. Colloid Interface Sci., 2020, 567, 308–315.
 dation by electrophoresis deposition, J. Mater. Res., 2018, 94 L. He, D. Zhou, Y. Lin, R. Ge, X. Hou, X. Sun and
 33, 581–589. C. Zheng, Ultrarapid in Situ Synthesis of Cu2S Nanosheet
 82 L. Wang, X. Ge, Y. Li, J. Liu, L. Huang, L. Feng and Arrays on Copper Foam with Room-Temperature-Active
 Y. Wang, Nickel enhanced the catalytic activities of amor- Iodine Plasma for Eﬃcient and Cost-Eﬀective Oxygen
 phous copper for the oxygen evolution reaction, J. Mater. Evolution, ACS Catal., 2018, 8, 3859–3864.
 Chem. A, 2017, 5, 4331–4334. 95 L. An, P. Zhou, J. Yin, H. Liu, F. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Du and
 83 P. Farinazzo Bergamo Dias Martins, P. Papa Lopes, P. Xi, Phase transformation fabrication of a Cu2S nano-
 E. A. Ticianelli, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic and plate as an eﬃcient catalyst for water oxidation with
 D. Strmcnik, Hydrogen evolution reaction on copper: glycine, Inorg. Chem., 2015, 54, 3281–3289.
 Promoting water dissociation by tuning the surface oxo- 96 K. S. Bhat and H. S. Nagaraja, Hydrogen evolution reac-
 philicity, Electrochem. Commun., 2019, 100, 30–33. tion at extreme pH conditions of copper sulfide micro-
 84 L. Ye and Z. Wen, Self-supported three-dimensional Cu/ hexagons, J. Sci.: Adv. Mater. Devices, 2020, 3, 361–367.
 Cu2O-CuO/rGO nanowire array electrodes for an eﬃcient 97 X. Wang, J. Wang, X. Zhang, Q. Tian, M. Liu, N. Cai,
 hydrogen evolution reaction, Chem. Commun., 2018, 54, Y. Xue, W. Chen, W. Li and F. Yu, Nitrogen-Doped Cu2S/
 6388–6391. MoS2 Heterojunction Nanorod Arrays on Copper Foam for
 85 A. Tahira, Z. H. Ibupoto, M. Willander and O. Nur, Eﬃcient Hydrogen Evolution Reaction, ChemCatChem,
 Advanced Co3O4–CuO nano-composite based electrocata- 2019, 11, 1354–1361.
 lyst for eﬃcient hydrogen evolution reaction in alkaline 98 Q. Zhou, T. T. Li, J. Wang, F. Guo and Y. Q. Zheng,
 media, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2019, 44, 26148–26157. Hierarchical Cu2S NRs@CoS core-shell structure and its
 86 L. Yu, H. Zhou, J. Sun, F. Qin, D. Luo, L. Xie, F. Yu, J. Bao, derivative towards synergistic electrocatalytic water split-
 Y. Li, Y. Yu, S. Chen and Z. Ren, Hierarchical Cu@CoFe ting, Electrochim. Acta, 2019, 296, 1035–1041.
 layered double hydroxide core-shell nanoarchitectures as 99 X. Wang, X. Hou, H. Lee, L. Lu, X. Wu and L. Sun, Copper
 bifunctional electrocatalysts for eﬃcient overall water Selenide–Derived Copper Oxide Nanoplates as a Durable
 splitting, Nano Energy, 2017, 41, 327–336. and Eﬃcient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Evolution
 87 L. Yu, H. Zhou, J. Sun, F. Qin, F. Yu, J. Bao, Y. Yu, S. Chen Reaction, Energy Technol., 2020, 8, 1–6.
 and Z. Ren, Cu nanowires shelled with NiFe layered 100 W. Shi and J. Lian, Facile synthesis of copper selenide
 double hydroxide nanosheets as bifunctional electrocata- with fluﬀy intersected-nanosheets decorating nanotubes
 lysts for overall water splitting, Energy Environ. Sci., 2017, structure for eﬃcient oxygen evolution reaction,
 10, 1820–1827. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2019, 44, 22983–22990.
 88 X. Ma, X. Li, A. D. Jagadale, X. Hao, A. Abudula and 101 J. Masud, W. P. R. Liyanage, X. Cao, A. Saxena and
 G. Guan, Fabrication of Cu(OH)2@NiFe-layered double M. Nath, Copper Selenides as High-Eﬃciency
 hydroxide catalyst array for electrochemical water split- Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Evolution Reaction, ACS Appl.
 ting, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2016, 41, 14553–14561. Energy Mater., 2018, 1, 4075–4083.
 89 Y. S. Xie, Z. Wang, M. Ju, X. Long and S. Yang, Dispersing 102 W. Zhang, D. Fu, Y. Bai and C. Yuan, In situ anion
 transition metal vacancies in layered double hydroxides exchange synthesis of copper selenide electrode as electro-

 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021 Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 | 271
 View Article Online

 Review Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers

 catalyst for hydrogen evolution reaction, Int. J. Hydrogen hydrogen evolution reaction over the entire pH range,
 Energy, 2017, 42, 10925–10930. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2020, 46, 24219–24231.
 103 S. Anantharaj, T. S. Amarnath, E. Subhashini, 108 J. Tian, Q. Liu, N. Cheng, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, Self-
 S. Chatterjee, K. C. Swaathini, K. Karthick and S. Kundu, Supported Cu3P Nanowire Arrays as an Integrated High-
 Shrinking the Hydrogen Overpotential of Cu by 1 v and Performance Three-Dimensional Cathode for Generating
 Imparting Ultralow Charge Transfer Resistance for Hydrogen from Water, Angew. Chemie, 2014, 126, 9731–
 Enhanced H2 Evolution, ACS Catal., 2018, 8, 5686–5697. 9735.
 104 Y. Gao, Y. Wu, H. He and W. Tan, Potentiostatic electrode- 109 S. Chu, W. Chen, G. Chen, J. Huang, R. Zhang, C. Song,
 position of Ni–Se–Cu on nickel foam as an electrocatalyst X. Wang, C. Li and K. (Ken) Ostrikov, Holey Ni-Cu phos-
 for hydrogen evolution reaction, J. Colloid Interface Sci., phide nanosheets as a highly eﬃcient and stable electro-
 2020, 578, 555–564. catalyst for hydrogen evolution, Appl. Catal., B, 2019, 243,
 105 B. Chakraborty, R. Beltrán-Suito, V. Hlukhyy, J. Schmidt, 537–545.
 P. W. Menezes and M. Driess, Crystalline Copper Selenide 110 A. Han, H. Zhang, R. Yuan, H. Ji and P. Du, Crystalline
 as a Reliable Non-Noble Electro( pre)catalyst for Overall copper phosphide nanosheets as an eﬃcient janus cata-
Published on 28 October 2020. Downloaded on 1/15/2026 7:34:31 AM.

 Water Splitting, ChemSusChem, 2020, 13, 3222–3229. lyst for overall water splitting, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces,
 106 S. Kumaravel, K. Karthick, P. Thiruvengetam, J. M. Johny, 2017, 9, 2240–2248.
 S. S. Sankar and S. Kundu, Tuning Cu Overvoltage for a 111 K. Karthick, S. Anantharaj, S. Patchaiammal,
 Copper-Telluride System in Electrocatalytic Water S. N. Jagadeesan, P. Kumar, S. R. Ede, D. K. Pattanayak
 Reduction and Feasible Feedstock Conversion: A New and S. Kundu, Advanced Cu3Sn and Selenized Cu3Sn@Cu
 Approach, Inorg. Chem., 2020, 59, 11129–11141. Foam as Electrocatalysts for Water Oxidation under
 107 K. C. Majhi and M. Yadav, Transition metal chalcogenides Alkaline and Near-Neutral Conditions, Inorg. Chem., 2019,
 based nanocomposites as eﬃcient electrocatalyst for 58, 9490–9499.

 272 | Inorg. Chem. Front., 2021, 8, 234–272 This journal is © the Partner Organisations 2021